
 Lead the change. Shape the future.

Disruptive technologies are revolutionizing business. To compete, it's not enough to have a foundation in accounting and finance. You also need a broad understanding of technology, business analytics, sustainability, and innovation. 
That's why you'll study at the intersections of accounting, finance, and business while immersing yourself in diverse topics that give you the flexibility to design your unique pathway. Dive into collaborative, problem-based courses, then apply your learning to the real world through co-op work terms and co- and extra-curricular experiences. 
By cultivating an entrepreneurial mindset and leading-edge financial expertise, you'll be ready to positively impact global economies with new perspectives and solutions.
Program highlights
Pro qualifications. A degree in Accounting and Financial Management (AFM) provides a direct route to a Chartered Professional Accountant (CPA) designation and a Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) designation. Complete our Master of Accounting (MAcc) program and you'll also get advanced standing for the Chartered Business Valuators (CBV) professional designation.
Top-level accreditation. Our School of Accounting and Finance has received the highest level of national accreditation through CPA Canada, as well as accreditation through the CFA Institute University Affiliation Program.
Offered as a co-op program only
Graduate with a Bachelor of Accounting and Financial Management (BAFM)
Offered by the School of Accounting and Finance, Faculty of Arts
What will you learn?

First-year courses
You'll gain a strong foundation in accounting, finance, and business starting from day one.
Plus, you'll develop the competencies today's employers demand – from technical skills to transferable ones, including problem-solving, communication, collaboration, and critical thinking.
Learn about courses you'll take for your accounting and finance degree.


Customize your degree
Future-proof your career and expand your knowledge with career specializations. Use your 13 electives to complete up to two areas of focus.
Accounting
Finance
Entrepreneurship
Business Analytics
Only want to complete one career specialization? No problem. Use your remaining electives to pursue a minor to take courses that interest you.

 

Get tips from Waterloo students
Join our monthly newsletter for tips such as choosing a university program, life at Waterloo, and finances.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Contact a student ambassador
Ask an Accounting and Financial Management student about their program, classes, getting involved on campus, and more!
Questions? Contact a current student
 
Become a finance expert who can lead change and shape the future
Watch video on YouTube

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms, you can explore new career areas and employers as your interests evolve.

Sample co-op job titles
Fixed income analyst
Finance officer trainee
Junior financial analyst
Business analyst
Auditor trainee
IT finance assistant
Staff accountant/analyst
Accounting assistant

 



What can you do with a degree in Accounting and Financial Management?

If you complete both the AFM and the eight-month Master of Accounting (MAcc) programs, you eliminate the need to take the two-year CPA Professional Education Program. Instead, you can proceed directly to the CPA Final Exam (CFE) as soon as you graduate.
As an Accounting and Financial Management (AFM) graduate, you'll build an impactful career innovating new business models, advancing social and environmental responsibility, and leading organizations to create positive, long-term change.
Graduates often pursue careers in finance, accountancy, consulting, and auditing to kickstart their careers. As AFM grads progress through their careers, they commonly work in consulting, finance, and accounting in banks, business advisory firms, insurance companies, and more.
Recent graduates
Senior accountant – KPMG
Financial consultant – Investors Group 
Senior auditor – Royal Bank Financial Group
Program manager – Sun Life Financial 
Sustainability analyst – GFL Environmental
Banking analyst – Euro Pacific Canada
Learn about the future of careers in business.




Admission requirements
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Any Grade 12 U English (minimum final grade of 75% is required)
Advanced Functions (minimum final grade of 75% is required)
Calculus and Vectors (minimum final grade of 75% is required)
Completion of the SAF Admissions Assessment (SAFAA)
Recommended courses: Principles of Financial Accounting, Mathematics of Data Management
Admission average: Individual selection from the mid-80s
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements.
How to apply
Apply directly to this program on your application.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, or careers?
Please email Kelly Millar, our recruitment and admissions coordinator who can answer any questions you have.

 

Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochureRelated programs
Computing and Financial Management
Biotechnology/Chartered Professional Accountancy
Mathematics/Chartered Professional Accountancy
Sustainability and Financial Management
 