
Predict the future — without a crystal ball

Focus your studies by adding a specialization in Finance or Predictive Analytics, preparing you for careers in business, insurance, and finance.
How will the stock market perform next February? How much will insurance companies pay out in claims next year? With an Actuarial Science degree from Waterloo, you’ll have the answers.
In this program, you'll take courses such as the mathematics of finance, risk theory, and pension mathematics taught by professional actuaries in one of North America’s top actuarial schools.
Meanwhile, adding computer science, arts, and various math electives will give you the combination of technical and communication skills that employers are looking for.
Whether you choose the regular stream or the co-op stream, you'll graduate ready to enter a great job market with great prospects and high starting salaries.
Program highlights
Skip the professional exams. Because the Canadian Institute of Actuaries has accredited Waterloo’s Actuarial Science program, you can be exempted from several exams for your actuarial designation.
Social and academic support. Through the student-run Actuarial Science Club, you can find a mentor, get career advice, or meet new friends over board games and bubble tea.
Available as a regular and co-op program
Graduate with a Bachelor of Mathematics in Actuarial Science
Offered by the Faculty of Mathematics
What will you learn?

First-year courses
You'll take a mix of Mathematics and Computer Science to give you the foundations for your upper-year classes. After first year, the majority of your required courses will be Actuarial Science courses with additional courses in Statistics and Mathematics, along with electives.
Learn about courses you'll take for your Actuarial Science degree.


Customize your degree in Actuarial Science
You can add additional areas of expertise by including a Finance or Predictive Analytics specialization.
Once you're a student, advisors can help you explore which minors or specializations may fit into your plans.

 

Get tips from Waterloo students
Sign up for insider advice that can help you now and in the future.
Monthly topics include how to choose a program, what it's like to be a Waterloo student, the differences between high school and university, and more.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Questions? Ask a student!
Contact a Faculty of Mathematics student ambassador to learn about their experience in the program.
Ask them questions such as why they chose their program, what the classes are like, and how you can get involved on campus.
Questions?Contact a Math student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve.
Visit our Waterloo Stories website to learn about how Kerthanan is using the lessons he learnt in his co-op terms for his career after university.

Sample co-op job titles
Finance and accounting analyst
Web solutions developer/technical analyst
Defined benefits pension administrator
Programmer enterprise portfolio management
Actuarial analyst
Data scientist
Insurance associate

 



What can you do with a degree in Actuarial Science?

Waterloo Actuarial Science graduates commonly pursue careers in finance, management, education, actuary, risk analysis, and consulting. They often work at insurance companies, financial institutions, schools, and more.
Recent graduates
Financial Business Analyst – BMO Bank of Montreal
Senior Actuarial Analyst – Sun Life Financial
Advisory Analyst – State Farm Insurance Company
Risk Modelling Analyst – TD Securities
Actuarial Associate – Manulife Financial
Actuarial Analyst – Munich Reinsurance
Head, Operations - Visionary Semiconductor
Learn about the future of careers in business.



Student life, including women in mathematics


Math Society (MathSoc)
MathSoc is run by students for students and provides a wide range of clubs and services as well as social and academic events to make your experience as a Waterloo Mathematics student the best it can be. There are many ways to get involved and to meet students in other Faculty of Mathematics programs.


Campus-wide activities
Outside of the Faculty of Mathematics, our campus is packed with opportunities to get involved, no matter how unique your interests. Between clubs supported by the Waterloo Undergraduate Student Association, sports and recreation, student government, and an incredible range of events, there's something for everyone at Waterloo!



Women in Mathematics
The Women in Mathematics (WiM) community encourages and advocates for women of all ages who are interested in studying math and pursuing a career in a related area. WiM strives for all genders to be well-represented in mathematics and welcomes people with under-represented gender identities.


Women in Computer Science
Women in Computer Science (WiCS) promotes gender equity for students interested in studying computer science and pursuing career in computing. WiCS has a very active student-run committee and offers events such as the Big CSters mentoring program, workshops, a speaker series, and panels about diversity in computer science and STEM.

 

There's also Women in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (WiSTEM), a student-run club that welcomes all students (regardless of gender) to promote equality in STEM. Opportunities include skills workshops, discussions, homework help, and guest speakers.



Actuarial Science admission requirements
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Advanced Functions
Calculus and Vectors
Any 4U English
One other 4U course
Recommended course: Grade 11 U Introduction to Computer Science
Admission averages: Individual selection from the high 80s
How to apply?
Apply to Mathematics and choose Actuarial Science as your major at the end of first year. Once you've applied, you'll need to complete the Admission Information Form as part of the application process.
We strongly encourage you to participate in the Canadian Senior Mathematics Contest and/or the Euclid Mathematics Contest to enhance your admissions status.
To be considered for entrance scholarships in the Faculty of Mathematics, you must write one or both of the contests. If you complete both contests, we'll use the results of the contest in which you performed best.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, or careers?
Please contact our Faculty of Mathematics recruitment coordinator who can answer any questions you have.

 
Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochure 