
 From Neanderthals to Millennials, discover what it means to be human

Stefan fell in love with Anthropology after taking a class in grade 11. Later, he participated in excavating the ancestral sites of Indigenous groups in southern Ontario after graduating from Anthropology at Waterloo.
In a rapidly changing and increasingly globalized world, the insights of anthropology are more valuable than ever.
In Anthropology at Waterloo, you’ll explore cultures past and present. Delve into the origins of human and primate evolution, use archaeology to learn more about earlier societies, or tackle contemporary issues such as violence and media.
Our first-year introductory anthropology course exposes you to the breadth of this discipline. In your upper years, you can focus your degree on the area of anthropology that interests you most: socio-cultural, archaeological, or biological (physical) anthropology.
You’ll graduate to a wide range of career options, including market research, cultural resource management, forensic anthropology, and international development, with the added bonus of work experience if you take the co-op stream.
Program highlights
Pick from 40+ courses. Choose from more than 40 Anthropology courses, including seminars, field courses, and independent research courses.
Conduct fieldwork overseas. Give your degree an international edge by opting for fieldwork in the Mediterranean, the Arctic, or Africa.


Available as a regular or co-op program
Available as a major and minor
Graduate with a Bachelor of Arts in Anthropology
Offered by the Faculty of Arts
What will you learn?

First-year courses
During your first year, you'll take two introductory Anthropology courses. Plus, you'll have electives to explore an additional major of your choosing. In upper years, 40% of the classes you'll take will be Anthropology courses.
Learn about courses you'll take for your Anthropology degree.


Customize your degree
You can also include one or more of the minors available to all Waterloo students.
Popular areas of focus for Anthropology students include French; History; and Sexuality, Marriage and Family Studies.

 

Get tips from Waterloo students
Join our monthly newsletter for tips such as choosing a university program, life at Waterloo, and finances.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Contact a student ambassador
Ask a Faculty of Arts student about their program, classes, getting involved on campus, and more!
Questions?Contact an Arts student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve. 

Sample co-op job titles
Archaeological field technician
Student historical teacher/interpreter
Marketing intern
Human resources co-op
Lab assistant

 



What can you do with a degree in Anthropology?

Waterloo Anthropology graduates typically pursue careers in research, forensic anthropology, and more. They often work in research laboratories, non-profit organizations, museums, and government departments.
Recent graduates
Field Archaeologist – Archaeological Services
Technical Specialist – Edward Jones Investments
Collections Manager – Sharon Temple National Historic Site & Museum
Scientific Officer - Australian Museum
Transit Planner - City of Mississauga
Supervising Agent - AIL Traboulay Agency
Learn about the future of careers in arts, humanities, social sciences, languages, and creative arts.



Admissions

Apply to Honours Arts or Honours Arts and Business and choose Anthropology as your major at the end of first year.
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Any Grade 12 U English (minimum final grade of at least 70%)
Admission average: Low 80s (co-op and regular)
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements for Honours Arts or Honours Arts and Business.



Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, careers?
Please contact our Faculty of Arts recruitment team who can answer any questions you have.

 
Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochure 