
Build models to save the world. No assembly required.

Combine your interests in mathematics and science by adding an option in Biology, Economics or Physics to your degree.
Use your understanding of mathematical concepts to solve complex problems in engineering, medicine, business, and science, from the behaviour of ocean waves to the structure of space-time.
	In Applied Mathematics, you’ll deepen your knowledge of calculus and differential equations: the foundation for most mathematical models. You’ll have lots of opportunity to put those tools to work on real-life problems — in the classroom and, if you choose co-op, during your work terms.
Many of our Applied Mathematics graduates work in research, development, and consulting. Others pursue graduate studies in applied mathematics, computer science, engineering, or physics.
Either way, your Waterloo degree will open doors.
Program highlights
Add research to your résumé. Spend a term working with a Waterloo professor as a research assistant — and perhaps get published in The Waterloo Mathematics Review, which showcases undergraduate research.
Get international experience. Round out your résumé and broaden your cultural perspective with a term abroad. Earn credits at universities in 18 different countries, or spend a work term with a company overseas.
Available as a regular or co-op program
Earn a Bachelor of Mathematics degree in Applied Mathematics
Offered by the Faculty of Mathematics
What will you learn?

First-year courses
You'll mostly take a mix of Mathematics and Computer Science courses to give you the foundations for your upper-year classes. After first year, the majority of your required courses will be Applied Mathematics courses, with foundational courses in Mathematics.
Learn more about courses you'll take for your Applied Mathematics degree.


Customize your Bachelor of Mathematics degree
You can add additional areas of expertise to your degree by including an option or one of the minors available to all Waterloo students.
Once you're a student, advisors can help you explore which minors or specializations may fit into your plans.

 

Get tips from Waterloo students
Sign up for insider advice that can help you now and in the future.
Monthly topics include how to choose a program, what it's like to be a Waterloo student, the differences between high school and university, and more.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Questions? Ask a student!
Contact a Faculty of Mathematics student ambassador to learn about their experience in the program.
Ask them questions such as why they chose their program, what the classes are like, and how you can get involved on campus.
Questions?Contact a Math student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve.

Sample co-op job titles
Junior marketing analyst
Mobile application developer
Assistant survey methodologist
Data scientist
Financial analyst
Instructional support assistant
Web full stack developer

 



What can you do with a degree in Applied Mathematics?

Waterloo Applied Mathematics graduates commonly pursue careers in research, consulting, and development. They often work in financial institutions, universities, government, and for engineering firms.
Recent graduates
Research Assistant – Tufts University
Strategy Analyst – Open Options
Data Analyst – BMO Bank of Montreal
Software Engineer – Instagram
Quality Assurance Specialist – Maplesoft
Computing Consultant – University of Waterloo
Software Developer – Latitude Geographics
Learn about the future of careers in math, coding, and data. 



Student life, including women in mathematics


Math Society (MathSoc)
MathSoc is run by students for students and provides a wide range of clubs and services as well as social and academic events to make your experience as a Waterloo Mathematics student the best it can be. There are many ways to get involved and to meet students in other Faculty of Mathematics programs.


Campus-wide activities
Outside of the Faculty of Mathematics, our campus is packed with opportunities to get involved, no matter how unique your interests. Between clubs supported by the Waterloo Undergraduate Student Association, sports and recreation, student government, and an incredible range of events, there's something for everyone at Waterloo!



Women in Mathematics
The Women in Mathematics (WiM) community encourages and advocates for women of all ages who are interested in studying math and pursuing a career in a related area. WiM strives for all genders to be well-represented in mathematics and welcomes people with under-represented gender identities.


Women in Computer Science
Women in Computer Science (WiCS) promotes gender equity for students interested in studying computer science and pursuing career in computing. WiCS has a very active student-run committee and offers events such as the Big CSters mentoring program, workshops, a speaker series, and panels about diversity in computer science and STEM.

 

There's also Women in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (WiSTEM), a student-run club that welcomes all students (regardless of gender) to promote equality in STEM. Opportunities include skills workshops, discussions, homework help, and guest speakers.


"Being in the Faculty of Mathematics has given me lots of flexibility to try new things and discover different majors. I was able to take courses in many different disciplines within math which helped me to decide what I want to do after I graduate." Cody, third-year Applied Mathematics student
Admission requirements
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Advanced Functions
Calculus and Vectors
Any 4U English
One other 4U course
Recommended course: Grade 11 U Introduction to Computer Science
Admission averages: Individual selection from the high 80s
How to apply?
Apply to Mathematics and choose Applied Mathematics as your major at the end of first year. Once you've applied, you'll need to complete the Admission Information Form as part of the application process.
We strongly encourage you to participate in the Canadian Senior Mathematics Contest and/or the Euclid Mathematics Contest to enhance your admissions status.
To be considered for entrance scholarships in the Faculty of Mathematics, you must write one or both of the contests. If you complete both contests, we'll use the results of the contest in which you performed best.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, or careers?
Please contact our Faculty of Mathematics recruitment coordinator who can answer any questions you have.

 
Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochure 
 