
Create the blueprints for a great career

In one of North America’s top schools of architecture, you’ll get a broad education that covers everything from building materials and construction techniques to cultural history, social context, green architecture, and more. Not to mention you'll combine it all with paid co-op work experience.
However, the core of this pre-professional program is design courses, starting right in year one. You’ll get your own dedicated space in our studio where you’ll develop your ideas and skills through a series of hands-on projects.
Learn about society and culture, the principles of physics, materials and techniques of construction, human interaction with the natural and built environment, critical thought, and the diverse forms of creative expression.
The School of Architecture is a beautiful historic building in the city of Cambridge, about 30 km (usually a 45-minute drive) from Waterloo's main campus. The campus in Cambridge is complete with studios, labs, exhibition galleries, and a world-class design library.
Program highlights
Study in Rome. The Coliseum is calling! You’ll spend the fall of your fourth year at our studio in Rome, one of the world's great cities for culture and architecture.
Kick-start your career as an architect. Join the only school of architecture in the world where you’ll get two years of paid co-op work experience in Canada and abroad.


Offered as a co-op program only
Graduate with a Bachelor of Architectural Studies
Offered by the School of Architecture within the Faculty of Engineering

Build your Architecture degree at Waterloo
Watch video on YouTube
The School of Architecture at the University of Waterloo is a leader in design education and research. All students gain valuable paid co-op work experience and the program has been rated the greenest architecture curriculum in Canada.

What will you learn?

During your first year, you'll take a mix of design, communication, and building courses. In upper years, most of the classes you'll take will be Architecture courses.
Learn more about courses you'll take for your Architecture degree.

Get tips from Waterloo students
Join our newsletter for tips such as choosing a program, life at Waterloo, and finances.


Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students
 


Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve.

Sample co-op job titles
Architectural assistant
Architectural student
Intern architect
Architectural designer
3D architectural visualization artist

 
 



What can you do with a degree in architecture?

Graduates commonly pursue careers in architecture, design, consulting, and project management. They often work in architectural firms, construction and design firms, engineering and manufacturing companies, and more.
Recent graduates
Associate Architect – Altius Architecture
Project Manager – Millworks Manufacturing
Architectural Design – Whiting Design
Urban Designer – Stantec Architecture
Product Designer – Facebook
Architectural Assistant – Stantec Architecture
Intern Architect – Levitt Goodman Architects
Learn about the future of careers in engineering.



How does the program relate to Architectural Engineering?

If you're strong in artistic and creative abilities and have a background in math and science, Architecture is for you. You'll focus on design that applies social and cultural aspects as well as science and engineering to construction projects, ranging from accessible public space to environmental approaches to sustainable building and landscape and urban design.
Architectural Engineering is closer to Civil Engineering than it is to Architecture. Students will cover mechanics, structural analysis, structural design, and in the first two years, a lot of math. You'll learn about the science and engineering behind good building design – not just the structural aspects, but also energy efficiency, sustainable building design, and smart/green building design.



Is the program accredited?

To become a licensed architect, one of the requirements is to possess a professional degree in architecture from an accredited program. Waterloo's Master of Architecture program is fully accredited through the Canadian Architectural Certification Board.
Waterloo's pre-professional Architecture (leading to a Bachelor of Architectural Studies degree) and the professional Master of Architecture provides a fully accredited professional education.


Architecture degree admission requirements

Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
English (ENG4U) (A minimum final grade of 75% is required)
Advanced Functions (A minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Calculus and Vectors (A minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Physics (A minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Recommended: Grade 11 or 12 art courses, independent art studies, creative and cultural studies such as visual arts and history
Admission average: Individual selection from the mid-80s
Selected students will be invited to submit a portfolio of creative work and to complete an English précis-writing exercise as part of the application process.


Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements.

 
How to apply
Apply directly to this program on your application.
Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochure
Related programs
Architectural Engineering
Planning


Learn more
Visit our Architecture program website.

 
 