
Rocket science, meet medical science

If you enjoy biology and physics and want a career in medical technology or health research, Biological and Medical Physics at Waterloo is for you.
Run by the Department of Physics and Astronomy — one of the largest and most innovative physics departments in Canada — this flexible and interdisciplinary program is based on a solid foundation of physics, chemistry, and biology. Not to mention that students have the opportunity to gain paid work experience through their co-op work terms.
You’ll enjoy small classes, hands-on labs, and the opportunity to get involved in research and teaching.
Join a program that fosters curious minds to question the smallest particles, the largest forces, and everything in between. Be part of a community that includes Nobel Prize laureate professor Donna Strickland and professor Avery Broderick, part of the team to take the first image of a black hole.
Program highlights

Learn from top researchers. Get the scoop on the latest research in the physics seminar, which brings together all Waterloo physics students for talks from top scientists.


Make friends for life. Plan to live in residence? Join the Science Living Learning Community to connect with students who share your passion (and get study support).

Available as a regular or co-op program
Graduate with a Bachelor of Science in Biological and Medical Physics
Offered by the Faculty of Science

What will you learn?

First-year courses
In your first year, you'll take a mixture of Physics, Biology, Mathematics, and Chemistry courses to give you the foundations for your upper-year classes. After first year, most of your classes will be Physics courses with some Biology courses.
Learn more about courses you'll take for your Biological and Medical Physics degree.


Customize your degree
You can add additional areas of interest and expertise by including one of the minors available to all Waterloo students.

 

Get tips from Waterloo students
Sign up for insider advice that can help you now and in the future.
Monthly topics include how to choose a university program, what it's like to be a Waterloo student, and more.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Questions? Ask a student!
Contact a Science student ambassador to learn about their experience.
Ask them questions such as why they chose their program, what the classes are like, and how you can get involved on campus.
Questions?Contact a Science student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve. 

Sample co-op job titles
Medical device design assistant
Ultrasound image reconstruction specialist
X-ray diffraction technologist
Science and math peer tutor
Undergraduate research assistant
Quality assurance analyst

 



What can you do with a degree in Biological and Medical Physics?

Biological and Medical Physics is a uniquely interdisciplinary degree, which gives you a great deal of flexibility depending on which electives you choose. You could pursue professional programs such as medicine or optometry or work in fields such as radiation oncology and medical imaging. You could specialize as a health physics technician in industries, or as a medical physicist or medical imaging technician in hospitals. You could also go on to do research related to biology, physics, or both.
You can learn more about medical physics and career options on the Canadian Organization of Medical Physicists website.
Possible careers for graduates
Senior Scientist, Drug Discovery - Merck Canada
Medical Physicist - Cancer Centres
Health and Safety Officer - Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission
Customer Support, Scientific Instrumentation - Olympus
Product Developer - Christie Medical



Admission requirements
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
English (ENG4U) (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Advanced Functions (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Calculus and Vectors (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Two of: Biology, Chemistry, Earth and Space Science, Mathematics of Data Management, or Physics
Admission averages: Low 80s
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements.
How to apply
Apply to Physical Sciences and select Biological and Medical Physics as your major in first year.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, or careers?
Please contact Alisia, our Science recruitment coordinator who can answer any questions you have.


 
Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochureRelated programs
Biology
Physics
Biomedical Sciences
Biomedical Engineering
 