
Create tomorrow's life-saving innovations

Design bionic limbs. Create laser-guided surgical devices. Enhance cancer-imaging systems. Develop wearable tech that keeps populations healthy and improves athletic performance. In Biomedical Engineering, you’ll use engineering know-how to develop better ways to diagnose illnesses, treat health problems, and enhance health.
You’ll study biomechanics, physics, physiology, and design. With that broad knowledge, you’ll be able to collaborate with all kinds of different experts: biologists, medical practitioners, policy makers, and engineers, to name a few. You’ll also learn to model and design complex biomedical systems—and you’ll get plenty of hands-on experience through two years of paid co-op work terms, plus a fourth-year design project.
By the time you graduate, you’ll be ready to create tomorrow’s life-saving and life-enhancing innovative technologies.
Program highlights
Engineer innovative solutions for health. Participate in an emerging field, and create technology like pacemakers, athletic training gear, and medical equipment.
Make life easier. Create biomechanics and biomedical devices while relating them to biology and physiology, and focusing on human mobility and devices that make our lives easier.


Offered as a co-op program only
Graduate with a Bachelor of Applied Science in Biomedical Engineering
Offered by the Faculty of Engineering
Why Waterloo Engineering?
Watch video on YouTube
With its renowned co-op program and a supportive entrepreneurial ecosystem, Waterloo Engineering is one of the world’s top engineering schools. You'll have access to emerging technologies, innovative professors, and world-class facilities.
What will you learn?
During your first year, you'll take a mix of Biomedical Engineering and math courses.
Learn more about courses you'll take for your Biomedical Engineering degree.

Get tips from Waterloo students
Join our monthly newsletter for tips such as choosing a university program, life at Waterloo, and finances.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Questions? Ask a student!
Ask a Faculty of Engineering student about their program, classes, getting involved on campus, and more!
Questions?Contact an Engineering student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve.

Sample co-op job titles
Junior biomedical engineer
Medical device software developer
Signal processing algorithm developer
Bioengineering research assistant
Medical device designer
Robotics and embedded sensor research assistant

 



What can I do with a Biomedical Engineering degree?

Graduates often pursue careers in health, design, robotics, and research. They usually work in industry, health care centres, research laboratories, and more.
Recent graduates
Clinical application analyst – St. Joseph's Healthcare
Systems integration engineer – SQI Diagnostics
Software engineer – HeartFlow Inc.
System designer – Zimmer Biomet
Apple Watch hardware engineer – Apple
Brain-computer interface designer – Holland Bloorview Kids Rehabilitation Hospital
Product development specialist – Able Innovations Inc.
Possible professional designation
Professional Engineer
Learn about the future of careers in engineering.



Student life, including Women in Engineering


Student design teams
Have fun and develop hands-on experience through one or more of our 25+ student-led design teams! Design teams include rocketry, concrete canoe, robotics, solar car, submarine racing, autonomous vehicle, Space X Hyperloop, Formula Motorsports, Engineers Without Borders, and more.
You’ll meet people with similar interests and goals, benefit from networking with experts in the engineering profession, and develop some great skills for your résumé.


Women in Engineering
Women in Engineering (WiE) supports female students and engineers while encouraging the next generation of women to pursue careers in engineering. Regardless of gender, orientation, or background, you’re welcome to join this inclusive community to participate in outreach events as well as mentorship and volunteer opportunities.
Any student is also welcome to join Women in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (WiSTEM), a student-run club that promotes equality in STEM through skills workshops, discussions, and guest speakers.

 

Engineering Society (EngSoc)
EngSoc is run by students for students and provides many social and academic events and services to make your experience as a Waterloo Engineering student the best it can be.
Benefit from mentoring for first-year students or get involved and meet other students through an annual conference, semiformal, career fair, charity events, community outreach, and much more!


Campus-wide activities
Our campus is packed with opportunities to get involved – no matter how unique your interests. Between our 250+ student-run clubs, sports and recreation opportunities, student government, and events, student life at Waterloo has something for everyone.

 



What’s the difference between Biomedical Sciences and Biomedical Engineering?

Biomedical Sciences is the study of life from a medical perspective. You’ll learn about the body, disease, healing processes, genetics, physiology – the knowledge of how the body works and responds to stimuli.
Biomedical Engineering is the application of that scientific knowledge to develop medical technology. For instance, a surgeon needs to understand biomedical science to operate on a patient – and might use laser-guided surgical devices, artificial internal organs, or replacements for body parts developed by a biomedical engineer. The two work in tandem, but their approach is different. Biomedical Engineering has more mandatory courses than Biomedical Sciences.
Is Biomedical Engineering a path to become a doctor? In theory, yes, although it’s not recommended because it can be difficult to take the courses required to apply to medical school. The decision is whether you want to be a doctor or an engineer. Biomedical Sciences is a good route to becoming a doctor or other health care professional. Biomedical Engineering leads to becoming an engineer, usually in the medical field and biotechnology field.


Biomedical Engineering admission requirements

Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Advanced Functions (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Calculus and Vectors (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Chemistry (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Physics (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
English (ENG4U) (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Admission averages: Individual selection from the high 80s to low 90s


Complete the Admission Information Form once you've applied.
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements.

 
How to apply
Apply directly to this program on your application.
Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochure
Related programs
Chemical Engineering
Systems Design Engineering


Learn more
Visit our Biomedical Engineering program website.

 
 