
Fight illness with a healthy dose of data

Good health care decisions depend on good data. But there’s a crucial shortage of people with the right skills to make sense of statistical information. Step into that gap with a Biostatistics degree from Waterloo — the only one of its kind in Canada.
In this program, you’ll take the same core courses as Statistics students, but with the addition of specialized upper-year courses designed specifically for Biostatistics students. You'll also get the chance to get paid work experience through co-op.
Learn how to design clinical experiments, analyze health data, and interpret results. You’ll graduate ready to help create advances in diagnostics, medical technology, and treatments.
Program highlights
Two years of work experience. Opt for co-op and get 24 months of paid, on-the-job experience with research and health-related organizations.
Add research to your résumé. Want to go deeper? Work with a professor on a research project as part of your degree. Visit our Waterloo News website to learn about current research in biostatistics at Waterloo.
Available as a regular or co-op program
Graduate with a Bachelor of Mathematics in Biostatistics
Offered by the Faculty of Mathematics

Biostatistics at Waterloo is the only program of its kind in Canada and will prepare you for a successful career in the quantitative sector of the health care industry.
What will you learn?

First-year courses
You'll take a mix of Mathematics and Computer Science courses to give you the foundations for your upper-year classes. After first year, the majority of your required courses will be Statistics and Mathematics.
Learn about courses you'll take for your Biostatistics degree.


Customize your degree in Biostatistics
You can add additional areas of expertise by including one of the minors available to all Waterloo students.
Once you're a student, advisors can help you explore which minors or specializations may fit into your plans.

 

Get tips from Waterloo students
Sign up for insider advice that can help you now and in the future.
Monthly topics include how to choose a program, what it's like to be a Waterloo student, the differences between high school and university, and more.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Questions? Ask a student!
Contact a Faculty of Mathematics student ambassador to learn about their experience in the program.
Ask them questions such as why they chose their program, what the classes are like, and how you can get involved on campus.
Questions?Contact a Math student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve.
Co-op work/study sequences
 
Fall
Winter
Spring
First year
School
School
Co-op
Second year
School
Co-op
School
Third year
Co-op
School
Co-op
Fourth year
School
Co-op
School
Final year
Co-op
School
 

Fall = September to December, Winter = January to April, Spring = May to August
							School = Four-month school term
							Co-op = Four-month co-op work term
							There are additional work-study sequences where co-op starts in the spring of second year, the fall of second year, or the winter of second year.




Student life, including women in mathematics


Math Society (MathSoc)
MathSoc is run by students for students and provides a wide range of clubs and services as well as social and academic events to make your experience as a Waterloo Mathematics student the best it can be. There are many ways to get involved and to meet students in other Faculty of Mathematics programs.


Campus-wide activities
Outside of the Faculty of Mathematics, our campus is packed with opportunities to get involved, no matter how unique your interests. Between clubs supported by the Waterloo Undergraduate Student Association, sports and recreation, student government, and an incredible range of events, there's something for everyone at Waterloo!



Women in Mathematics
The Women in Mathematics (WiM) community encourages and advocates for women of all ages who are interested in studying math and pursuing a career in a related area. WiM strives for all genders to be well-represented in mathematics and welcomes people with under-represented gender identities.


Women in Computer Science
Women in Computer Science (WiCS) promotes gender equity for students interested in studying computer science and pursuing career in computing. WiCS has a very active student-run committee and offers events such as the Big CSters mentoring program, workshops, a speaker series, and panels about diversity in computer science and STEM.

 

There's also Women in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (WiSTEM), a student-run club that welcomes all students (regardless of gender) to promote equality in STEM. Opportunities include skills workshops, discussions, homework help, and guest speakers.



Biostatistics admission requirements
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Advanced Functions
Calculus and Vectors
Any 4U English
One other 4U course
Recommended course: Grade 11 U Introduction to Computer Science
Admission averages: Individual selection from the high 80s.
How to apply?
Apply to Mathematics and choose Biostatistics as your major. Once you've applied, you'll need to complete the Admission Information Form as part of the application process.
We strongly encourage you to participate in the Canadian Senior Mathematics Contest and/or the Euclid Mathematics Contest to enhance your admissions status.
To be considered for entrance scholarships in the Faculty of Mathematics, you must write one or both of the contests. If you complete both contests, we'll use the results of the contest in which you performed best.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, or careers?
Please contact our Faculty of Mathematics recruitment coordinator who can answer any questions you have.

 


Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochure 