
Spreadsheets + science = career success

In the world of biotech, specialists who can understand both spreadsheets and gene sequencing are a hot commodity. Enrol in the only accountancy program in Canada that combines biotechnology, accounting, and paid co-op work terms.
	You’ll learn about biology, biochemistry, and biotechnology in the Faculty of Science. At the same time, you’ll take accounting, auditing, financial management, and taxation courses in Waterloo’s top-ranked School of Accounting and Finance.
Outside the classroom, you’ll have all kinds of opportunities to get involved in competitions and student clubs. You’ll graduate ready to succeed in your choice of fields: accounting, biotech business development, financial analysis, and more.
Program highlights
Get career-relevant skills. Our curriculum emphasizes case-based lectures and workshops, along with the communications and analytical skills you’ll need for roles in leadership and management.
Build an awesome résumé. Explore possible career areas and acquire valuable on-the-job experience during your co-op work terms (experience that you may be able to credit toward a CPA designation!).
Offered as a co-op program only
Graduate with a Bachelor of Science in Biotechnology/Chartered Professional Accountancy
Offered by the Faculty of Science
What will you learn?
In your first year, you'll take a mixture of Accounting and Financial Management, Biology, and Science and Business courses to give you the foundations for your upper-year classes. After first year, most of your classes will be Biology and Accounting and Financial Management courses.
Learn more about courses you'll take for your degree.

Get tips from Waterloo students
Sign up for insider advice that can help you now and in the future.
Monthly topics include how to choose a university program, what it's like to be a Waterloo student, and more.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Questions? Ask a student!
Contact a Science student ambassador to learn about their experience.
Ask them questions such as why they chose their program, what the classes are like, and how you can get involved on campus.
Questions?Contact a Science student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve.

Sample co-op job titles
Staff accountant
Financial analyst
Supply chain analyst
Tax consultant
Assurance, external auditor
Wealth management financial reporting analyst
Transfer and administration assistant

 



What can I do with a degree in Biotechnology/CPA?

This program leads to the Master of Accounting program, which will qualify you to write the Canadian Institute of Chartered Accountants exam required to become a Chartered Professional Accountant (CPA).
Possible career areas
Audit and tax
Research and development monitoring and assessment
Pharmaceutical and medical technology
Learn about the future of careers in business.



Admission requirements
Ontario students: six Grade 12U and/or M courses including
English (ENG4U) (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Advanced Functions (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Calculus and Vectors (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Two of Biology, Chemistry, Earth and Space Science, Mathematics of Data Management, Physics
Admission averages: High 80s
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements.
How to apply?
Apply directly to this program on your application.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, or careers?
Please contact Alisia, our Science recruitment coordinator who can answer any questions you have.


 
Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochureRelated programs
Accounting and Financial Management
Mathematics/Chartered Professional Accountancy
Science and Business
Sustainability and Financial Management
 