
Watch video on YouTube
You don’t want just any business degree. You want one that makes employers take notice. Working with employers, we created business programs that give you an edge in the marketplace.
Business + your major
Unlike many other business programs, Waterloo's business degrees give you two areas of expertise: a deep knowledge of a specific subject (your major) – plus skills in marketing, finance, accounting, entrepreneurship, and more.
With the combination of business skills and your major, you'll understand how to help biotech firms commercialize their research, how to help a clean energy company grow, or how to promote a major league team's run for the championship through one of our specialized business programs.

Accounting and Financial Management
Biotechnology/Chartered Professional Accountancy
Business Administration (Laurier) and Computer Science (Waterloo) Double Degree
Business Administration (Laurier) and Mathematics (Waterloo) Double Degree
Computing and Financial Management
Environment and Business
Global Business and Digital Arts
Honours Arts and Business


Information Technology Management
Management Engineering
Mathematical Finance
Mathematics/Business Administration
Mathematics/Chartered Professional Accountancy
Mathematics/Financial Analysis and Risk Management
Recreation and Sport Business
Science and Business
Sustainability and Financial Management

 
A business degree + paid work experience
Through Waterloo's co-op program, you can gain up to two years of relevant experience – and get paid – while testing out careers before you graduate. Work for Fortune 500 companies, startups developing the next big idea, government, non-profits, and everything in between.
Waterloo ranks11thin the world for creating unicorns: startup companies worth more than $1 billionChoose from300+business-related coursesWaterloo ranksTop 10in Canada for business, management, accounting, and finance
Have an idea that you'd like to pursue? Waterloo’s Concept startup program provides mentorship, funding, and collaborative work space to help students and alumni launch their own business.

Turn your ideas into action
Whether you're into tech, social justice, writing, design, visual arts, or even submarine racing and autonomous cars, we have the resources for you.
Waterloo's business incubators and hands-on facilities provide the space and tools for you to explore your passions. Grow your entrepreneurial skills to become more employable or get help launching your own business.


Among the top entrepreneurial communities
Ranked among the world’s top ecosystems for entrepreneurs, the Waterloo region offers business incubators, mentors, funding, and a supportive network of fellow startups – all you need to turn your ideas into a business.
Our on-campus Accelerator Centre ranks top five in the world – and has a 93 per cent success rate, compared to the national average of only 51 per cent.

 
Tips from Waterloo studentsTours and eventsDownload brochures
Own your ideas
Unlike most universities where ideas belong to the institution, Waterloo allows you to capitalize on the ideas you generate through one of North America's most entrepreneurial-oriented intellectual property (IP) policies.
That means you can easily turn your ideas into a business with lots of on-campus support.


Make entrepreneurship part of your degree
Why not make entrepreneurship part of your business degree? Take a few courses or include a minor in entrepreneurship (available as an option if you're in Engineering).
You can also choose minors in International Trade, Human Resources Management, Legal Studies, Management Studies, and more.

 
21st in the worldand 1st in Canada for universities that produce the most successful entrepreneurs2023 PitchBook rankings of top 100 colleges for foundersCreating a positive effect on the world
Watch video on YouTube
While pursuing her Science and Business degree, Nadia discovered a passion for creating social and environmental change through business courses she took at the Conrad School of Entrepreneurship and Business at the University of Waterloo.
Ready to learn more?
Choose from 100+ programs.
Gain relevant paid experience through North America's largest co-op program.
Learn about Waterloo's admission requirements.
Subscribe to our newsletter to get tips and advice from current students.
 