
Combine the worlds of bytes and business

Double down on your love of technology, computer science, and business. In this unique program, you’ll get two prestigious degrees and two sets of skills in high demand.
Your Waterloo courses will cover fundamental mathematics, computer programming, data structures, algorithms, software engineering, operating systems, and social implications of computing. At nearby Wilfrid Laurier University (walking distance from our campus), you’ll study all the business basics: finance, accounting, marketing, organizational behaviour, business communication, law, human resource management, and business policy.
Plus, you’ll get four to five terms of real-world work experience through North America’s largest co-op program.
In just five years, you'll earn both a co-op Bachelor of Computer Science (BCS) from Waterloo and a Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) from Laurier.
Program highlights
Learn from top researchers. Home to award-winning teachers and researchers, the David R. Cheriton School of Computer Science at Waterloo is among the ten best computer science departments in North America.
Take your ideas to market. From fitness apps to AI-based note-taking software, Waterloo’s Velocity program helps students launch their startup ideas.
Offered as a co-op program only
Graduate with a Bachelor of Computer Science (BCS) and Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA)
Offered by the Faculty of Mathematics
What will you learn?

First-year courses
You'll take fundamental courses in Business, Economics, Mathematics, and Computer Science to give you the foundations for your upper-year classes.
Learn about courses you'll take for your Business Administration and Computer Science Double Degree.


Customize your degree
Once you're a student, advisors can help you explore which minors, specializations, or concentrations may fit into your plans.

 

Get tips from Waterloo students
Sign up for insider advice that can help you now and in the future.
Monthly topics include how to choose a program, what it's like to be a Waterloo student, the differences between high school and university, and more.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Questions? Ask a student!
Contact a Faculty of Mathematics student ambassador to learn about their experience in the program.
Ask them questions such as why they chose their program, what the classes are like, and how you can get involved on campus.
Questions?Contact a Math student
 

Gain relevant work experience through co-op

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve.

Sample co-op job titles
Full stack developer
QA analyst
Secure engineering tools development intern
Software developer
Trading products quantitative analyst
Web UI intern

 



What can you do with two degrees in business and computer science?

Waterloo and Laurier Business Administration and Computer Science graduates often pursue careers in programming, finance, and analysis. They commonly work in technology, investment, and consulting companies.
Recent graduates
Program Manager - Microsoft Corporation
iOS Software Engineer - Apple
Business Analyst - CIBC World Markets
Investment Banking Analyst - Morgan Stanley Canada
Software Engineer - Google Canada
Consultant - Deloitte Consulting
Software Engineer - Amazon
Senior Business Intelligence Systems Analyst, WIND Mobile
Risk Modelling Analyst, Toronto-Dominion Bank
Possible professional designations
Chartered Professional Accountant
Chartered Financial Analyst
Fellow of the Society of Actuaries
Learn about the future of careers in business



Student life, including Women in Computer Science


Women in Computer Science
Women in Computer Science (WiCS) promotes gender equity for students interested in studying computer science and pursuing career in computing. WiCS has a very active student-run committee and offers events such as the Big CSters mentoring program, workshops, a speaker series, and panels about diversity in computer science and STEM.


Women in Mathematics
The Women in Mathematics (WiM) community encourages and advocates for women of all ages who are interested in studying math and pursuing a career in a related area. WiM strives for all genders to be well-represented in mathematics and welcomes people with under-represented gender identities.

 

Women in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (WiSTEM)
WiSTEM is a student-run club that welcomes all students (regardless of gender) to promote equality in STEM. Opportunities include skills workshops, discussions, homework help, and guest speakers.


Double Degree club (DDC)
The DDC is an official Waterloo and Wilfrid Laurier student-run organization that aims to enhance your university experience through social events, networking and mentorship opportunities, and academic resources.

 

Math Society (MathSoc)
MathSoc is run by students for students and provides a wide range of clubs and services as well as social and academic events to make your experience as a Waterloo Mathematics student the best it can be. There are many ways to get involved and to meet students in other Faculty of Mathematics programs.


Campus-wide activities
Outside of the Faculty of Mathematics, our campus is packed with opportunities to get involved, no matter how unique your interests. Between clubs supported by the Waterloo Undergraduate Student Association, sports and recreation, student government, and an incredible range of events, there's something for everyone at Waterloo!

 



Admission requirements
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Advanced Functions
Calculus and Vectors
Any Grade 12 U English
One other 4U course
Recommended course: Grade 11 U Introduction to Computer Science
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements.
Admission averages: Individual selection from the mid-90s
Once you've applied, you'll need to complete the Admission Information Form as part of the application process.
We strongly encourage you to participate in the Canadian Senior Mathematics Contest and/or the Euclid Mathematics Contest to enhance your admissions status. To be considered for entrance scholarships in the Faculty of Mathematics, you must write one or both of the contests. If you complete both contests, we'll use the results of the contest in which you performed best.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, or careers?
Please contact our Faculty of Mathematics recruitment coordinator who can answer any questions you have.

 
Where to apply: Waterloo or Laurier?
The University of Waterloo and Wilfrid Laurier University each admit students to the double degree program. We recommend that you apply at both universities to maximize your likelihood of admission. The academic program is identical, regardless of whether Waterloo or Laurier is your home base. Differences include where you’d live in residence, scholarships, the co-op process, and access to athletic and student life facilities. These are available through your home university.
Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochure 