
Five years, two degrees, one serious edge
Combine your interests in business and math in this unique program, and gain two degrees in the time it normally takes to earn one co-op degree.
This double degree program combines Waterloo's strength in mathematics with the business expertise of nearby Wilfrid Laurier University (walking distance from our campus).
	You'll graduate with two prestigious degrees: a Bachelor of Mathematics (BMath) from Waterloo and a Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) from Laurier. Together, they give your résumé an enviable edge that will impress employers and prepare you to make your mark as a trader, analyst, executive, or entrepreneur.
Program highlights
Social and academic support. Looking for an upper-year mentor? A group study session? A stress-reducing game of paintball? You’ll find it all at the Math/Business Double Degree Club.
Two years of work experience. Your five co-op work terms will give you 20 months of paid work experience — and a major advantage when you launch your career.
Offered as a co-op program only
Graduate with a Bachelor of Mathematics and a Bachelor of Business Administration
Offered by the Faculty of Mathematics
What will you learn?

First-year courses
You'll take foundational courses in Business, Economics, Mathematics, and Computer Science to give you the foundations for your upper-year classes. You can then choose to specialize in the business or mathematics component of either.
Learn about courses you'll take for your Business Administration and Mathematics Double degree.


Customize your degree
You can add additional areas of expertise by including one or more of the minors available to all Waterloo students.
Once you're a student, advisors can help you explore which minors or specializations may fit into your plans.

 

Get tips from Waterloo students
Sign up for insider advice that can help you now and in the future.
Monthly topics include how to choose a program, what it's like to be a Waterloo student, the differences between high school and university, and more.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Questions? Ask a student!
Contact a Faculty of Mathematics student ambassador to learn about their experience in the program.
Ask them questions such as why they chose their program, what the classes are like, and how you can get involved on campus.
Questions?Contact a Math student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve.

Sample co-op job titles
Financial analyst
Data analyst
Investment banking analyst
Marketing assistant
Data scientist intern
Senior accounting clerk
Project manager assistant
Claims process analyst

 



 What can you do with a degree in business and math?

Graduates typically pursue careers in finance, consulting, and technology. They often work in financial institutions, technology companies, and consulting firms.
Recent graduates
Data Analyst – RBC Financial Group
Director – Sun Life Financial 
Business Manager – Microsoft Canada 
Model Analyst – Manulife Financial
Management Consultant – Oliver Wyman
Risk Analyst – TD Securities 
Retail Financial Analyst – Suncor Energy
Possible professional designations
Chartered Professional Accountant
Chartered Financial Analyst
Fellow of the Society of Actuaries
Learn about the future of careers in business.  



Student life, including Women in Mathematics


Math Society (MathSoc)
MathSoc is run by students for students and provides a wide range of clubs and services as well as social and academic events to make your experience as a Waterloo Mathematics student the best it can be. There are many ways to get involved and to meet students in other Faculty of Mathematics programs.


Campus-wide activities
Outside of the Faculty of Mathematics, our campus is packed with opportunities to get involved, no matter how unique your interests. Between clubs supported by the Waterloo Undergraduate Student Association, sports and recreation, student government, and an incredible range of events, there's something for everyone at Waterloo!



Women in Mathematics
The Women in Mathematics (WiM) community encourages and advocates for women of all ages who are interested in studying math and pursuing a career in a related area. WiM strives for all genders to be well-represented in mathematics and welcomes people with under-represented gender identities.


Women in Computer Science
Women in Computer Science (WiCS) promotes gender equity for students interested in studying computer science and pursuing career in computing. WiCS has a very active student-run committee and offers events such as the Big CSters mentoring program, workshops, a speaker series, and panels about diversity in computer science and STEM.

 

There's also Women in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (WiSTEM), a student-run club that welcomes all students (regardless of gender) to promote equality in STEM. Opportunities include skills workshops, discussions, homework help, and guest speakers.


"I love this program because I learn about my two passions: math and business while graduating with two degrees from top-rated schools. With co-op I've gain work experience and developed on-the-job skills that'll make me career ready after graduation."Cynthia, second-year student
Admission requirements
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Advanced Functions
Calculus and Vectors
Any Grade 12 U English
One other 4U course
Recommended: Grade 11 Introduction to Computer Science
Admission averages: Individual selection from the low 90s
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements.
Once you've applied, you'll need to complete the Admission Information Form as part of the application process.
We strongly encourage you to participate in the Canadian Senior Mathematics Contest and/or the Euclid Mathematics Contest to enhance your admissions status. To be considered for entrance scholarships in the Faculty of Mathematics, you must write one or both of the contests. If you complete both contests, we'll use the results of the contest in which you performed best.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, or careers?
Please contact our Faculty of Mathematics recruitment coordinator who can answer any questions you have.

 

Where to apply: Waterloo or Laurier?
The University of Waterloo and Wilfrid Laurier University each admit students to the double degree program. We recommend that you apply at both universities to maximize your likelihood of admission. The academic program is identical, regardless of whether Waterloo or Laurier is your home base. Differences include where you’d live in residence, scholarships, and the co-op process, and access to athletic and student life facilities. These are available through your home university.

Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochure 