
Design a sustainable future

Health, energy, and environment. Global sustainable solutions through Chemical Engineering.
In one of the world's top Chemical Engineering programs (ranked 89th globally in the QS World University Rankings 2023), you’ll enhance your knowledge of physics, chemistry, biology, and math to transform raw materials into useful products. You'll also design and control complex physical and chemical processes.
Chemical engineers design, implement, and supervise industrial processes where matter undergoes change, including in the pharmaceutical, energy, or plastics industries, among others. They also play a major role in the emerging field of nanotechnology, with applications in the development of new eco-friendly advanced materials and devices.
Through North America's largest co-op program, you can apply your transferable skills in a wide range of jobs that support the transition to sustainable energy, combat climate change, maximize food production, enable a circular economy, enhance health care, and more.
During your six co-op terms, you'll be able to create an impressive résumé, explore potential career areas, and earn money to help pay for your education. You’ll graduate ready for a career in renewable energy, agriculture and food processing, biotechnology and biomedical, pharmaceuticals, environmental remediation, and more.
Program highlights
An experiential approach. Learn to conduct investigations in the areas of fluid mechanics, bioprocesses, electrochemistry, and more using our hands-on labs.
Benefit from multiple perspectives. Combine your knowledge of physics, chemistry, biology, and math with engineering design and problem-solving skills.


Offered as a co-op program only
Graduate with a Bachelor of Applied Science in Chemical Engineering with an option for specialization
Offered through the Faculty of Engineering
Chemical Engineering at Waterloo
Watch video on YouTube
Part of Canada's largest engineering school, the Department of Chemical Engineering at Waterloo is home to more than 1,200 students, faculty and staff, with thousands of alumni worldwide.
What will you learn?
During your first year, you'll take a mix of engineering, math, biology, chemistry, and physics courses. In upper years, you'll learn to design batteries, optimize and control chemical and biological processes, and design separation processes.
Learn more about courses you'll take for your Chemical Engineering degree.

Get tips from Waterloo students
Join our monthly newsletter for tips such as choosing a university program, life at Waterloo, and finances.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Questions? Ask a student!
Ask a Faculty of Engineering student about their program, classes, getting involved on campus, and more!
Questions?Contact an Engineering student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve.

Sample co-op job titles
Analyst
Research assistant
Materials scientist
Process specialist
Quality project coordinator
Project manager
Supply chain assistant

 



What can I do with a degree in Chemical Engineering?

When you graduate, you’ll find no shortage of career options in various sectors like biomedicine, biotechnology, pharmaceutical, food processing, automotive, environmental remediation, and renewable energy. Our Entrepreneurship Option gives you the skills to go off the beaten path and create your own startup.
Recent graduates
Test systems engineer – Tesla
Process specialist – Maple Leaf Foods
Supply chain analyst – Estee Lauder Inc.
Associate project manager – Natural Resources Canada
Production engineer – Apotex Pharmaceuticals
Laboratory technologist – University Health Network
Design engineer – Evercloak
Possible professional designation
Professional Engineer
Learn about the future of careers in engineering.



Student life, including Women in Engineering


Student design teams
Have fun and develop hands-on experience through one or more of our 25+ student-led design teams!
Design teams include rocketry, concrete canoe, robotics, solar car, submarine racing, autonomous vehicle, Space X Hyperloop, Engineers Without Borders, and more.


Women in Engineering
Women in Engineering (WiE) supports female students and engineers while encouraging the next generation of women to pursue careers in engineering.
Any student is also welcome to join Women in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (WiSTEM), a student-run club that promotes equality in STEM through skills workshops, discussions, and guest speakers.

 

Engineering Society (EngSoc)
EngSoc is run by students for students and provides many social and academic events and services to make your experience as a Waterloo Engineering student the best it can be.
Benefit from mentoring for first-year students or get involved and meet other students through an annual conference, semiformal, career fair, charity events, community outreach, and much more!


Campus-wide activities
Our campus is packed with opportunities to get involved – no matter how unique your interests.
Between our 200+ student-run clubs, sports and recreation opportunities, student government, and events, student life at Waterloo has something for everyone.

 


"The great thing about Chemical Engineering is that it's a really broad field of study, so there's lots of room to explore and refine your studies to something that you're really passionate about."Chukwunonso Moneme, Chemical Engineering studentAdmission requirements

Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Advanced Functions (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Calculus and Vectors (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Chemistry (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Physics (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
English (ENG4U) (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Admission averages: Individual selection from the mid- to high 80s


Complete the Admission Information Form once you've applied.
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements.

 
How to apply
Apply directly to this program on your application.
Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochure
Related Programs
Biomedical Engineering
Nanotechnology Engineering


Learn more
Visit our Chemical Engineering program website

 
 