
Design and build vital structures

Population growth, climate change, and aging infrastructure are some of the big challenges that today’s civil engineers tackle in the quest for smart cities and a sustainable future. As a civil engineer, you’ll lead the creation, maintenance, and management of the large-scale infrastructure we all depend upon.
During your six paid co-op work terms, you can test drive different career options. Work for major construction and engineering companies, get experience with local or provincial governments, or spend a term abroad.
This is a degree with lots of flexibility. You’ll have access to a wide range of electives, allowing you to customize your education to suit your interests and career goals.
By the end of your degree, you’ll be ready to design, analyze, construct, and manage everything from airports and skyscrapers to bridges, transportation networks, municipal water systems, and more.
Program highlights
Develop solutions for a better tomorrow. At Waterloo, you'll have access to high-tech simulation labs where you’ll learn how to test risks before any shovels hit the ground.
Your urban playground. Learn to design and build structures that stand the test of time, including roads, landscaping structures, pavement, and bridges.


Offered as a co-op program only
Graduate with a Bachelor of Applied Science in Civil Engineering
Offered through the Faculty of Engineering
Why Waterloo Engineering?
Watch video on YouTube
Population growth, climate change, and aging infrastructure are some of the big challenges that today's civil engineers tackle in the quest for smarter cities and a sustainable future. As a civil engineer, you'll lead the creation, maintenance, and management of the large-scale infrastructure we all depend upon.
What will you learn?
During your first year, you'll take a mix of engineering and math courses. In upper years, most of your classes will be in Civil Engineering.
Learn more about courses you'll take for your Civil Engineering degree.

Get tips from Waterloo students
Join our monthly newsletter for tips such as choosing a university program, life at Waterloo, and finances.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Questions? Ask a student!
Ask a Faculty of Engineering student about their program, classes, getting involved on campus, and more!
Questions?Contact an Engineering student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve.

Sample co-op job titles
Field technician
Quality control technician
Diagnostics civil engineering
Transportation planner
Concrete lab technician
Estimator / project manager
Structural engineering student

 
 



What can you do with a degree in Civil Engineering?

Graduates often pursue careers where they oversee projects focusing on planning, design, and construction of the large-scale infrastructures around us.
Recent graduates
Tunnel Engineer – GHD
Structural Engineer – AECOM
Engineer – MMM Group
Structural Design Engineer – Stephenson Engineering
Field Engineer – PCL Construction Management 
Civil Engineer – Clifton Associates
Project Manager – JP2G
Possible professional designation
Professional Engineer
Learn about the future of careers in engineering.



Student life, including Women in Engineering


Student design teams
Have fun and develop hands-on experience through one or more of our 25+ student-led design teams! Design teams include rocketry, concrete canoe, robotics, solar car, submarine racing, autonomous vehicle, Space X Hyperloop, Formula Motorsports, Engineers Without Borders, and more.
You’ll meet people with similar interests and goals, benefit from networking with experts in the engineering profession, and develop some great skills for your résumé.


Women in Engineering
Women in Engineering (WiE) supports female students and engineers while encouraging the next generation of women to pursue careers in engineering.
Any student is also welcome to join Women in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (WiSTEM), a student-run club that promotes equality in STEM through skills workshops, discussions, and guest speakers.

 

Engineering Society (EngSoc)
EngSoc is run by students for students and provides many social and academic events and services to make your experience as a Waterloo Engineering student the best it can be.
Benefit from mentoring for first-year students or get involved and meet other students through an annual conference, semiformal, career fair, charity events, community outreach, and much more!


Campus-wide activities
Our campus is packed with opportunities to get involved – no matter how unique your interests. Between our 250+ student-run clubs, sports and recreation opportunities, student government, and events, student life at Waterloo has something for everyone.

 


"Many believe that engineer's only serve their community in a technical capacity, but there is so much  to learn about the intersection between engineering work with environmental and social justice! I hope it’s more explored in the future." Delina Gebrezghi, Civil Engineering studentAdmission requirements

Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Advanced Functions (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Calculus and Vectors (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Chemistry (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Physics (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
English (ENG4U) (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Admission averages: Individual selection from the mid- to high 80s


Complete the Admission Information Form once you've applied.
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements.

 
How to apply
Apply directly to this program on your application.
Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochure
Related programs
Architecture
Environmental Engineering


Learn more
Visit our Civil Engineering program website.

 
 