
Take your love for Homer beyond the Simpsons
Delve into the roots of Western civilization and gain a deep understanding of ancient Greece and Rome — cultures that continue to shape our thinking and our society today.
Discover the enduring ideas of greats like Socrates, Plato, and Aristotle. Master enough ancient Greek and Latin to study classic texts in their original language. Explore the many facets of antiquity: from history, religion, and philosophy to art, science, and technology.
Meanwhile, you’ll have lots of room to round out your education with courses from other departments or faculties and with work experience through co-op. Once you’ve graduated, the broad thinking demanded by the program will serve you well in a range of careers, including law, policy, culture, education, and more.
Choose from two majors
Classical Studies
Classics (includes learning Greek and Latin)
Program highlights
Enjoy great discussions. Do more than just take notes. In our small classes, you’ll have lots of opportunity for debate and discussion.
Study overseas. The Acropolis is calling! Take advantage of study-abroad opportunities in the Mediterranean, or do an internship with the Canadian Institute in Greece.
Available as a regular or co-op program
Classical Studies is also available as a minor
Graduate with a Bachelor of Arts in Classical Studies or Classics
Offered by the Faculty of Arts
Watch video on YouTube
What will you learn? 

First-year courses
During your first year, you'll take two introductory Classical Studies courses. Plus, you'll have electives to explore an additional major of your choosing. In upper years, 40% of the classes you'll take will be Classical Studies courses.
Learn about courses you'll take for your Classical Studies degree.


Customize your degree
You can add additional areas of expertise by including one or more of the minors available to all Waterloo students. Popular choices include History and Peace and Conflict Studies.

 

Get tips from Waterloo students
Join our newsletter for tips such as choosing a program, life at Waterloo, and finances.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Contact a student ambassador
Ask a Faculty of Arts student about their program, classes, getting involved on campus, and more!
Questions?Contact an Arts student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve. 
Sample co-op job titles
Development assistant
Technical writer
Marketing and development intern
Media relations assistant
Web design and maintenance



What can you do with a degree in Classical Studies?

Graduates typically pursue careers in education, art, writing, law, and culture working in schools, museums, libraries, and publishing companies.
Recent graduates
Systems Librarian - Wentworth Libraries
Technical Writer – Optech 
Teacher – Blessed Mother Teresa S.S.
Minister – Bethesda Baptist Church
Learn about the future of careers in arts, humanities, social sciences, languages, and creative arts.



Admissions
Apply to Honours Arts or Honours Arts and Business and choose Classical Studies as your major at the end of first year. 
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Any Grade 12 U English (minimum final grade of at least 70%)
Admission average: Low 80s (co-op and regular)
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements for Honours Arts or Honours Arts and Business.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, careers?
Please contact our Faculty of Arts recruitment team who can answer any questions you have.

 

Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochure
Related programs
Medieval Studies
History
 