
Testing 1, 2, 3. Testing 1, 2, 3.


In these two exciting, highly interactive majors, you’ll explore how our everyday forms of communication create meaning and shape our perspective of the world. The majors are unique within Canada for our experience-based study of verbal, non-verbal, visual, and digital communication practices.


Over the course of your degree, you’ll hone your written and oral communication skills while developing expertise in teamwork, research, visual and digital literacy, and critical analysis — just the kind of skills that employers are hungry for. Choosing the co-op version will provide insights into possible careers and paid work experience along the way.
Choose one of two majors

In Communication Arts and Design Practice, you'll enhance your knowledge and practice of effective communication with hands-on digital design projects.
			This major offers a greater focus on visual communication and rhetoric and is a really good fit if you're artistic and interested in careers in digital media design.


In Communication Studies, you'll focus on the art of speaking and communicating to audiences and in group settings.
			This major is broader and has more courses related to general business than the Communication Arts and Design Practice major.

 

Program highlights
Career-relevant workshops. Our professional development workshops give you a head start on careers in public relations, digital design, politics, marketing, teaching, or broadcasting.
Make lasting connections. Enjoy small classes that range from 15 to 35 students and have the chance to really connect with your classmates and professors.
Available as a regular or co-op program
Available as a major and minor
Graduate with a Bachelor of Arts in Communication Studies or Communication Arts and Design Practice
Offered by the Faculty of Arts
What will you learn?

First-year courses
During your first year, you'll take three introductory Communication Studies courses. Plus, you'll have electives to explore an additional major of your choosing. In upper years, 40% of the classes you'll take will be in your major.
Learn about courses you'll take for your major.


Customize your degree
You can add additional areas of expertise by including one or more of the minors available to all Waterloo students.
Popular choices include Fine Arts Studio, Digital Arts Communication, Theatre and Performance, Human Resource Management, French, and Political Science.

 

Get tips from Waterloo students
Join our newsletter for tips such as choosing a program, life at Waterloo, and finances.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Questions? Ask a student!
Ask a Faculty of Arts student about their program, classes, getting involved on campus, and more!
Questions?Contact an Arts student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore different career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve.

Sample co-op job titles
Marketing communications associate
Media and publications associate
Research analyst
Business analyst
Human resources co-op
Media relations specialist
Logistics assistant

 
 



What can you do with a communication degree?

With the explosion of information in recent decades, a degree in communication has never been more valuable. Our program will set you up for an exciting range of careers in marketing, public relations, advertising, teaching, the media, and human resources. Graduates work in a variety of settings – including interpersonal, organizational, and public – for businesses, non-profit organizations, universities, technology companies, and financial institutions.
Learn more about what you can do with a communication degree.
Recent graduates
Marketing Coordinator – Deloitte
Junior Integrated Marketing Communications Manager – Microsoft Canada
English Teacher – EF Education First
Strategic Planning Officer – Canadian Broadcasting Corporation (CBC)
Enterprise Account Executive – Shopify Plus
Customer Experience Specialist – Tesla Canada
Learn about the future of careers in the humanities, social sciences, languages, and creative arts.



Admissions
Apply to Honours Arts or Honours Arts and Business and choose Communication Studies or Communication Arts and Design Practice as your major at the end of first year.
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Any Grade 12 U English (minimum final grade of at least 70%)
Admission average: Low 80s (co-op and regular)
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements for Honours Arts or Honours Arts and Business.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, careers?
Please contact our Faculty of Arts recruitment team who can answer any questions you have.

 


Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochureRelated programs
English
Global Business and Digital Arts
 