
 Get ready to solve industrial-sized problems

Today, it takes more than a calculator and a few equations to tackle many of the questions facing business and industry. That’s where you come in.
In Computational Mathematics you’ll study the intersection of mathematics, statistics, optimization, and computer science, to solve problems in business, finance, medicine, science, and technology. You'll learn to analyze data sets, formulae, and images in ways that help us understand the world around us and predict and influence the future.
There’s no better place to study it than Waterloo: we’re ranked among the world’s top 25 schools for computer science (QS World University Rankings by Subject 2023), and we have one of the largest co-op networks, too.
You'll learn how to harness the power of computers and data to generate and run mathematical models that understand trends and find industrial-sized solutions.
You'll graduate with a unique blend of skills that will put you in demand for high-end technology jobs around the world.
Program highlights
Your choice: Four years or five. Gain 24 months of paid work experience through Waterloo's co-op program, the largest of its kind in North America, or fast track your degree by choosing the regular system of study.
Add research to your résumé. As an undergraduate research assistant, you could spend a term working with one of our award-winning professors on a research problem.
Available as a regular and co-op program
Graduate with a Bachelor of Mathematics in Computational Mathematics
Offered by the Faculty of Mathematics
What will you learn?

First-year courses
You'll take a mix of Mathematics and Computer Science courses to give you the foundations for your upper-year classes, along with a few electives.
Learn about courses you'll take for your Computational Mathematics degree.


Customize your degree
You can add additional areas of expertise by including one of the minors available to all Waterloo students.
Once you're a student, advisors can help you explore which minors or specializations may fit into your plans.

 

Get tips from Waterloo students
Sign up for insider advice that can help you now and in the future.
Monthly topics include how to choose a program, what it's like to be a Waterloo student, the differences between high school and university, and more.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Questions? Ask a student!
Contact a Faculty of Mathematics student ambassador to learn about their experience in the program.
Ask them questions such as why they chose their program, what the classes are like, and how you can get involved on campus.
Questions?Contact a Math student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve.

Sample co-op job titles
Student programmer
Junior web developer
Data analyst
Technical trading associate
Software developer
Data scientist
Programmer analyst

 
 



What can you do with a degree in Computational Mathematics?

Waterloo Computational Mathematics graduates often pursue careers in software development, business, and data analysis. They often work for companies in sectors such as finance, telecommunications, and more.
Recent graduates
Information Systems Analyst and Consultant – University of Waterloo
Security Engineer – Arctic Wolf Networks
Software Developer – TD Bank Group
Senior Application Developer – Fairfax Financial Holdings
Associate Analyst, Forecast and Measurement – IDC Canada
Data Scientist – Stitch Fix
Software Test Specialist – Magnet Forensics 
Learn about the future of careers in business.



Student life, including women in mathematics


Math Society (MathSoc)
MathSoc is run by students for students and provides a wide range of clubs and services as well as social and academic events to make your experience as a Waterloo Mathematics student the best it can be.


Campus-wide activities
Outside of the Faculty of Mathematics, our campus is packed with opportunities to get involved. Between clubs, sports and recreation, student government, and an incredible range of events, there's something for everyone!



Women in Mathematics
The Women in Mathematics (WiM) community encourages and advocates for women of all ages who are interested in studying math and pursuing a career in a related area. WiM strives for all genders to be well-represented in mathematics and welcomes people with under-represented gender identities.


Women in Computer Science
Women in Computer Science (WiCS) promotes gender equity for students interested in studying computer science and pursuing career in computing. WiCS has a very active student-run committee and offers workshops, a speaker series, and panels about diversity in computer science and STEM.

 

There's also Women in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (WiSTEM), a student-run club that welcomes all students (regardless of gender) to promote equality in STEM. Opportunities include skills workshops, discussions, homework help, and guest speakers.



Admission requirements
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Advanced Functions
Calculus and Vectors
Any 4U English
One other 4U course
Recommended course: Grade 11 U Introduction to Computer Science
Admission averages: Individual selection from the high 80s
How to apply?
Apply to Mathematics and choose Computational Mathematics as your major at the end of first year. Once you've applied, you'll need to complete the Admission Information Form as part of the application process.
We strongly encourage you to participate in the Canadian Senior Mathematics Contest and/or the Euclid Mathematics Contest to enhance your admissions status.  
To be considered for entrance scholarships in the Faculty of Mathematics, you must write one or both of the contests. If you complete both contests, we'll use the results of the contest in which you performed best.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, or careers?
Please contact our Faculty of Mathematics recruitment coordinator who can answer any questions you have.

 
Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochure 