
Why choose? Develop software savvy and hardware know-how.

Want to design a brain stimulator to combat symptoms of Parkinson's disease? Develop software to protect companies from cyber attacks? Create the next groundbreaking gaming platform?
As an expert in computer hardware-software interactions you will be ready for a career working in cutting-edge technologies.
Between labs and lectures, you'll gain experience with all aspects of computers, from chips and wiring to software, networks, and communications. You will learn the basics of computing engineering in one of the top 75 programs in the world (Academic Rankings of World Universities 2023). And your co-op terms will give you two years of paid work experience.
You’ll graduate ready for a career as a software developer, hardware engineer, IT specialist, systems designer, and more, in a wide range of industries such as enterprise software, automotive, aerospace, automation and robotics, networks and databases, health care, and security.
Program highlights
Follow your passion. With more technical electives than any other computer engineering program in Canada, you’ll be able to explore interests in everything from circuit boards to software security. 
Study in a high-tech hub. Waterloo region is home to more than 1,500 technology companies, including Google and Shopify, providing lots of co-op and career opportunities.
Offered as a co-op program only
Graduate with a Bachelor of Applied Science in Computer Engineering
Offered by the Faculty of Engineering
Why Waterloo Engineering?
Watch video on YouTube
With its renowned co-op program and a supportive entrepreneurial ecosystem, Waterloo Engineering is one of the world’s top engineering schools. You'll have access to emerging technologies, innovative professors, and world-class facilities.
What will you learn?
During your first year, you'll take a mix of electrical and computer engineering, math, and communications courses. In upper years, you'll take mostly Computer Engineering courses.
Learn more about the courses you'll take for your Computer Engineering degree.

Get tips from Waterloo students
Join our monthly newsletter for tips such as choosing a university program, life at Waterloo, and finances.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Questions? Ask a student!
Ask a Faculty of Engineering student about their program, classes, getting involved on campus, and more!
Questions?Contact an Engineering student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve.

Sample co-op job titles
AI accelerator
Hardware engineering
Test automation developer
Software developer
Full stack web developer
Data engineering student
Data scientist
iOS developer
Infrastructure engineering intern
QA developer, mobile

 
 



What can you do with a degree in Computer Engineering?

Graduates commonly pursue careers in software and hardware development and engineering. They often work in software, technology, and automotive companies.
Recent graduates
Engineer – Slack Technologies
Software Engineer – Microsoft
Firmware Engineer – Tesla Motors
Network Administrator – OpenText
Engineer, Software – Zynga
Innovation Technical Lead – Sun Life Financial 
Chief Technology Officer – Rave Media
Possible professional designation
Professional Engineer
Learn about the future of careers in engineering.



Student life, including Women in Engineering


Student design teams
Have fun and develop hands-on experience through one or more of our 25+ student-led design teams! Design teams include rocketry, concrete canoe, robotics, solar car, submarine racing, autonomous vehicle, Space X Hyperloop, Engineers Without Borders, and more.
You’ll meet people with similar interests and goals, benefit from networking with experts in the engineering profession, and develop some great skills for your résumé.


Engineering Society (EngSoc)
EngSoc is run by students for students and provides many social and academic events and services to make your experience as a Waterloo Engineering student the best it can be.
Benefit from mentoring for first-year students or get involved and meet other students through an annual conference, semiformal, career fair, charity events, community outreach, and much more!

 

Campus-wide activities
Our campus is packed with opportunities to get involved – no matter how unique your interests. Between our 250+ student-run clubs, sports and recreation opportunities, student government, and events, student life at Waterloo has something for everyone.


Hack the North
As a Waterloo Computer Engineering student, you’ll have the opportunity to apply to participate in competitions such as Hack the North. This hack-a-thon is the largest in Canada and hosted annually at Waterloo.


Women in Engineering
Women in Engineering (WiE) supports female students and engineers while encouraging the next generation of women to pursue careers in engineering. Regardless of gender, orientation, or background, you’re welcome to join this inclusive community.


Women in STEM
Women in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (WiSTEM) is a student-run club that welcomes all students (regardless of gender) to promote equality in STEM. Opportunities include skills workshops, discussions, homework help, and guest speakers.

 


"I’ve learned so much from my peers, from how to set up a server to ballroom dancing. It’s amazing to be surrounded by people who are passionate about technology and willing to support each other."Maggie, Computer Engineering student"Little did I know when I first joined Waterloo that I'd be moving every 4 months, travelling to places I only dreamed of to work. It's been an incredible experience and it's all thanks to the co-op program. It's truly changed my life for the better."Yuvin, Computer Engineering student Computer Engineering admission requirements

Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Advanced Functions (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Calculus and Vectors (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Chemistry (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Physics (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
English (ENG4U) (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Previous experience in programming is recommended.
Admission averages: Individual selection from the high 80s to low 90s


Complete the Admission Information Form once you've applied.
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements.

 
How to apply
Apply directly to this program on your application.
Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochure
Related programs
Software Engineering
Electrical Engineering


Learn more
Visit our Computer Engineering program website

 
 