
Set yourself apart in a competitive marketplace

Develop the know-how, networks, and experience to land a career in computer science or finance – or both. Combine your interdisciplinary studies with six co-op work terms in areas such as software development, banking, investments, risk management, or insurance.
You'll gain expertise in two majors (computer science and finance) and become a valuable asset to any technology-dependent organization – especially in the ever-evolving financial technology industry.
As part of Computing and Financial Management (CFM), you'll study in two of Waterloo’s powerhouse institutions: the School of Accounting and Finance, where you’ll learn to understand sophisticated concepts of modern financial management, and the David R. Cheriton School of Computer Science, where you’ll acquire the skills to develop and maintain financial software.
By the time you graduate, you'll be armed with the know-how, the networks, and the co-op experience to land a career in computer science or finance — or both.
Program highlights
Build an awesome résumé. Because you’ll be alternating between classroom learning and co-op work terms, you’ll gain two full years of work experience and graduate with an impressive résumé.
Add more credentials. Aiming to work in the investment industry? A CFM degree provides a direct route to a Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) designation.


Offered as a co-op program only
Graduate with a Bachelor of Computing and Financial Management (BCFM)
Offered by the Faculty of Mathematics and the School of Accounting and Finance
What will you learn?

First-year courses
During your first year, you'll take Computer Science, Accounting and Financial Management, and foundational Mathematics courses.
Learn more about courses you'll take for your Computing and Financial Management degree.


Customize your degree
You can add an additional area of expertise by including one of the minors available to all Waterloo students.
If you're interested in a minor, be sure to check with your academic advisor who can help you plan your courses.

 

Get tips from Waterloo students
Join our monthly newsletter for tips such as choosing a university program, life at Waterloo, and finances.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Contact a student ambassador
Ask a Faculty of Mathematics student about their program, classes, getting involved on campus, and more!
Questions?Contact a Math student
 

What is CFM? (video)

Watch video on YouTube


Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve.

Sample co-op job titles
Claims data analytics intern
Corporate finance analyst
Investment analyst
QA analyst
Software developer
Technical analyst
Software engineer

 
 



What can you do with a degree in Computing and Financial Management?

Graduates often pursue careers in finance, investment, and technology. They often work in banks, consulting companies, and technology companies.
Recent graduates
Investment Analyst – Canada Pension Plan Investment Board
Vice President, Trading – BMO Bank of Montreal
Analyst – Canadian Pension Plan Investment Board
Technical Systems Analyst – RBC Financial Group
Tax Technology Specialist – KPMG
Investment Banking Analyst – CIBC
Financial Analyst – MNP
Possible professional designation
Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA)
Learn about the future of careers in business.



Student life, including women in computer science


Math Society (MathSoc)
MathSoc is run by students for students and provides a wide range of clubs and services as well as social and academic events to make your experience as a Waterloo Mathematics student the best it can be.


Campus-wide activities
Outside of the Faculty of Mathematics, our campus is packed with opportunities to get involved, no matter how unique your interests. Between clubs, sports and recreation, student government, and an incredible range of events, there's something for everyone!



Women in Computer Science
Women in Computer Science (WiCS) promotes gender equity for students interested in studying computer science. WiCS has a very active student-run committee and offers events such as the Big CSters mentoring program, workshops, and a speaker series.


Women in Mathematics
The Women in Mathematics (WiM) community encourages and advocates for women of all ages who are interested in studying math. WiM strives for all genders to be well-represented in mathematics and welcomes people with under-represented gender identities.

 


Women in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (WiSTEM)
WiSTEM is a student-run club that welcomes all students (regardless of gender) to promote equality in STEM. Opportunities include skills workshops, discussions, homework help, and guest speakers.


Hack the North
You’ll have the opportunity to participate in competitions such as Hack the North, the largest hack-a-thon in Canada and hosted annually at Waterloo.

 

Accounting & Finance Student Association (AFSA)
The Accounting & Finance Student Association (AFSA) is made up of students in Accounting and Financial Management (AFM), Biotechnology/CPA, Computing and Financial Management (CFM), Sustainability and Financial Management (SFM), and Mathematics/CPA. AFSA strives to meet the needs of Accounting and Finance students at the University of Waterloo.

 
 



Admission requirements
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Any Grade 12 U English (minimum final grade of 75% is required)
Advanced Functions
Calculus and Vectors
One other Grade 12 U course
Recommended: Introduction to Computer Science, Principles of Financial Accounting
Admission averages: Individual selection from the low to mid-90s
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements.
Once you've applied, you'll need to complete the Admission Information Form as part of the application process.
We strongly encourage you to participate in the Canadian Senior Mathematics Contest and/or the Euclid Mathematics Contest to enhance your admissions status. To be considered for entrance scholarships in the Faculty of Mathematics, you must write one or both of the contests. If you complete both contests, we'll use the results of the contest in which you performed best.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, careers?
Please email Robert Kitchen, our Computing and Financial Management program manager who can answer any questions you have.

 
Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochureRelated programs
Accounting and Financial Management
Computer Science
Computational Mathematics
Math/Financial Analysis and Risk Management
Mathematical Finance
Business Administration (Laurier) and Computer Science (Waterloo) Double Degree
 