
Get a degree that computes

The David R. Cheriton School of Computer Science is largest academic computer science research centre in Canada and one of the best globally, ranking 39th in the world (Times Higher Education World University Rankings 2024).
At one of the world’s best schools for computer science, you'll develop a broad understanding in areas such as systems and networks, algorithms, and programming. 
After first year, you can apply to a major in Data Science. You can also gain two years of paid work experience through our co-op program, the largest of its kind in North America, or fast track your degree by choosing the regular system of study.
Your degree is your ticket to career success. Our graduates go on to work in leading technology companies and at top universities around the world. Meanwhile, Waterloo professors and graduates have created more than 800 spin-off companies, including leaders like OpenText, Canada’s largest software company.
Program highlights
Social and academic support. Through Waterloo’s Computer Science Club, get access to high-powered software or get social with your fellow students.
Study your interests. With 70+ computer science courses, plus no end of options and electives, you can create a degree tailored to your specific interests.

Available as a regular or co-op program
Graduate with a Bachelor of Computer Science or a Bachelor of Mathematics in Computer Science
Offered by the Faculty of Mathematics

What will you learn?

First-year courses
You'll primarily take Mathematics and Computer Science courses to give you the foundations for your upper-year classes, along with a few electives. After first year, the majority of your required courses will be Computer Science.
Learn about courses you'll take for your Computer Science degree.


Customize your degree
You can add additional areas of expertise by including specializations such as artificial intelligence, human-computer interaction, or bioinformatics.
Once you're a student, advisors can help you explore which minors or specializations may fit into your plans.

 

Get tips from Waterloo students
Sign up for insider advice that can help you now and in the future.
Monthly topics include how to choose a program, what it's like to be a Waterloo student, the differences between high school and university, and more.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Questions? Ask a student!
Contact a Faculty of Mathematics student ambassador to learn about their experience in the program.
Ask them questions such as why they chose their program, what the classes are like, and how you can get involved on campus.
Questions?Contact a Math student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve. You can choose from 4 different co-op sequences.

Sample co-op job titles
Full stack developer
Game programmer
Web developer
Technical systems analyst
Research assistant
Software developer

 
 



What can you do with a degree in computer science?

Graduates typically pursue careers in technology such as software development and game development. They often work for software companies, technology companies, and more.
Recent graduates
Financial Software Developer – Bloomberg
Software Developer – Pinterest
Data Scientist – Facebook
Software Engineer – Google
Engineer, Relevancy – Wish
Software Developer – Palantir Technologies
Software Engineer – Dropbox
Learn about the future of careers in math, coding, and data.



Student life, including women in computer science


Math Society (MathSoc)
MathSoc is run by students for students and provides a wide range of clubs and services as well as social and academic events to make your experience as a Waterloo Mathematics student the best it can be.


Campus-wide activities
Outside of the Faculty of Mathematics, our campus is packed with opportunities to get involved, no matter how unique your interests. Between clubs, sports and recreation, student government, and an incredible range of events, there's something for everyone!



Women in Computer Science
Women in Computer Science (WiCS) promotes gender equity for students interested in studying computer science and pursuing career in computing. WiCS has a very active student-run committee and offers events such as the Big CSters mentoring program, workshops, and a speaker series.


Women in Mathematics
The Women in Mathematics (WiM) community encourages and advocates for women of all ages who are interested in studying math and pursuing a career in a related area. WiM strives for all genders to be well-represented in mathematics and welcomes people with under-represented gender identities.

 


Women in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics
Women in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (WiSTEM) is a student-run club that welcomes all students (regardless of gender) to promote equality in STEM. Opportunities include skills workshops, discussions, homework help, and guest speakers.


Hack the North
As Waterloo Computer Science student, you’ll have the opportunity to participate in competitions such as Hack the North. This hack-a-thon is the largest in Canada and hosted annually at Waterloo.

 


"I value being able to learn and grow alongside others who share your passion and understand your experience. It's hard work, but also so rewarding. I've grown so much both as a student and as a person in my time here at Waterloo."Stefanie, third-year Computer Science student"Co-op was the reason I chose Waterloo. No other school was able to offer me six four-month internships. I've explored many different software roles, including systems engineering and test automation as well as full-stack software engineering."Stephanie, Computer Science student"Being in co-op not only allows you to practise balancing time between job interviews, school, and a social life, but also helps you find your career goals and shapes you into a better leader in the workplace by taking the best from each co-op." Renee, fourth-year Computer Science student
Computer Science admission requirements
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Advanced Functions
Calculus and Vectors
Any Grade 12 U English
One other 4U course
Recommended: Grade 11 U Introduction to Computer Science
Admission average: Individual selection from the low to mid-90s
Not an Ontario high school student? Search our admission requirements.
How to apply?
Apply directly to this program on your application. Once you've applied, you'll need to complete the Admission Information Form as part of the application process.
We strongly encourage you to participate in the Canadian Computing Competition, Canadian Senior Mathematics Contest (CSMC), and/or the Euclid Mathematics Contest to enhance your admissions status.
To be considered for entrance scholarships in the Faculty of Mathematics, you must write the CSMC or the Euclid. If you complete both contests, we'll use the results of the contest in which you performed best.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, or careers?
Please contact our Faculty of Mathematics recruitment coordinator who can answer any questions you have.

 
Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochureRelated programs
Business Administration/Computer Science double degree
Computer Engineering
Computing and Financial Management
Geomatics
Software Engineering
 