
Make sense of the mountain of data produced every day

In Data Science at Waterloo, you'll take courses in computing systems, data analytics, statistics, and machine learning as well as core mathematical subjects like algebra and calculus.
Today we’re inundated with information from sensors, digital images, streaming video, satellite and medical imagery, and more. In Data Science at Waterloo, you’ll learn to extract meaningful information from that tsunami of data and use it to predict future trends.
You’ll complement your core courses in statistics, mathematics, and computer science with a range of electives from many of Waterloo’s 100 subject areas. When you graduate, you’ll have the skills and knowledge to help governments and businesses make better decisions and smarter strategies. And if you take the co-op stream, you'll have up to two years of work experience on top of that.
When you graduate, you’ll be ready for a huge range of career options. Our grads are putting their skills to work in areas as diverse as medicine, business, advertising, entertainment, and public health.
Program highlights
Win prizes — and glory. Show off your data-taming skills, impress potential employers, and win prizes at Waterloo’s annual datathon.
Study in a high-tech hub. Waterloo Region is home to more than 1,000 technology companies, including Google, OpenText, Shopify, and a host of startups.
Available as a regular or co-op program
Graduate with a Bachelor of Computer Science or Bachelor of Mathematics in Data Science
Offered by the Faculty of Mathematics
What will you learn?

First-year courses
You'll take a mix of Mathematics and Computer Science courses to give you the foundations for your upper-year classes, along with a few electives.
In your upper years, most of the courses you'll take will be in Statistics and Computer Science.
Learn about courses you'll take for your Data Science degree.


Customize your degree in Data Science
You can add additional areas of expertise by including one or more of the minors available to all Waterloo students.
Once you're a student, advisors can help you explore which minors or specializations may fit into your plans.

 

Get tips from Waterloo students
Sign up for insider advice that can help you now and in the future.
Monthly topics include how to choose a program, what it's like to be a Waterloo student, the differences between high school and university, and more.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Questions? Ask a student!
Contact a Faculty of Mathematics student ambassador to learn about their experience in the program.
Ask them questions such as why they chose their program, what the classes are like, and how you can get involved on campus.
Questions?Contact a Math student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve.

Sample co-op job titles
Data scientist
Risk management intern
Developer
Software engineering intern
Reporting analyst
Project manager
Enterprise analyst
QA analyst

 
 



What can you do with a data science degree?

Every day, huge amounts of data are generated by business, scientific, and social activity taking place all around us. With data coming from sensors, digital images, streaming video, satellite and medical imagery, and from interactions with cloud computing, data-driven approaches to decision making are being applied in areas as diverse as medicine, business, advertising, and entertainment.
Learn about the future of careers in business.



Student life, including women in mathematics


Math Society (MathSoc)
MathSoc is run by students for students and provides a wide range of clubs and services as well as social and academic events to make your experience as a Waterloo Mathematics student the best it can be. There are many ways to get involved and to meet students in other Faculty of Mathematics programs.


Campus-wide activities
Outside of the Faculty of Mathematics, our campus is packed with opportunities to get involved, no matter how unique your interests. Between clubs supported by the Waterloo Undergraduate Student Association, sports and recreation, student government, and an incredible range of events, there's something for everyone at Waterloo!



Women in Mathematics
The Women in Mathematics (WiM) community encourages and advocates for women of all ages who are interested in studying math and pursuing a career in a related area. WiM strives for all genders to be well-represented in mathematics and welcomes people with under-represented gender identities.


Women in Computer Science
Women in Computer Science (WiCS) promotes gender equity for students interested in studying computer science and pursuing career in computing. WiCS has a very active student-run committee and offers events such as the Big CSters mentoring program, workshops, a speaker series, and panels about diversity in computer science and STEM.

 

There's also Women in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (WiSTEM), a student-run club that welcomes all students (regardless of gender) to promote equality in STEM. Opportunities include skills workshops, discussions, homework help, and guest speakers.



Admissions
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Advanced Functions
Calculus and Vectors
Any Grade 12 U English
One other 4U course
Recommended: Grade 11 U Introduction to Computer Science
Admission average: Individual selection from the high 80s
Not an Ontario high school student? Search our admission requirements.
How to apply?
Apply to Computer Science or Mathematics and choose Data Science as your major at the end of first year. Once you've applied, you'll need to complete the Admission Information Form as part of the application process.
We strongly encourage you to participate in the Canadian Senior Mathematics Contest and/or the Euclid Mathematics Contest to enhance your admissions status. To be considered for entrance scholarships in the Faculty of Mathematics, you must write one or both of the contests. If you complete both contests, we'll use the results of the contest in which you performed best.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, or careers?
Please contact our Faculty of Mathematics recruitment coordinator who can answer any questions you have.

 
Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochure 