
From piggybanks to the World Bank, explore what makes economies tick

How do you turn a poor country into a rich country? What can government do to stimulate new industries like biotechnology and green energy? Economists make sense of the world.
Get ready to wrestle with important and complex questions: How do you turn a poor country into a rich country? How can we avoid another global financial crisis? What’s the best way for governments to stimulate new industries like biotechnology and green energy?
In first year, you’ll cover the fundamentals of micro- and macro-economics. In upper years, you can analyze how those principles play out in a wide range of sectors, including public policy, labour economics, health economics, finance, sport, and more.
Whether you’re aiming to work in the public sector, the private sector, or academia, your Economics degree from Waterloo will give you the skills and knowledge you need, along with co-op experience to back you up.
Program highlights
Academic and social support. Whether it’s the mentorship program, a professor-student social, or a games night, Waterloo’s Economics Society organizes supportive social and academic events.
Build an awesome résumé. Choose the co-op program and graduate with 20 months of relevant experience on top of your academic learning.
Available as a regular and co-op program
Available as a major and minor
Graduate with a Bachelor of Arts in Economics
Offered by the Faculty of Arts
What will you learn?  

First-year courses
During your first year, you'll take two introductory Economics courses. Plus, you'll have electives to explore an additional major of your choosing.
In upper years, 40% of the classes you'll take will be Economics courses.
Learn about courses you'll take for your Economics degree.


Customize your degree
You can add additional areas of expertise to your major by including one or more of the areas of focus in Economics.
Financial Economics
Public Policy
Econometrics
Popular areas of focus for Economics students include Financial Economics and Human Resource Management, two of the many minors available to all Waterloo students.

 

Get tips from Waterloo students
Join our newsletter for tips such as choosing a program, life at Waterloo, and finances.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Contact a student ambassador
Ask a Faculty of Arts student about their program, classes, getting involved on campus, and more!
Questions?Contact an Arts student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore careers and types of employers as your career interests evolve.

Sample co-op job titles
Information technology/finance support
Economist/statistician
Assistant internal auditor
SAP merchandising/change management
Project control officer
Associate business analyst
Sales operations coordinator

 
 



What can you do with an economics degree?

Graduates commonly pursue careers in government, finance, investment, and consulting. They often work in government agencies, financial companies, consulting firms, and more.
Recent graduates
Economist – Statistics Canada
Supervisor Entitlements – RBC Investor Services
Commercial Analyst – Meridian Credit Union
Senior Risk Manager – TD Securities
Trader - Gordon Capital Corporation
Learn about the future of careers in business.



Admissions
Apply to Honours Arts or Honours Arts and Business and choose Economics as your major at the end of first year.
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
any Grade 12 U English (minimum final grade of at least 70%)
Mathematics of Data Management is recommended as helpful background for the program.
Admission average: Low 80s (co-op and regular)
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements for Honours Arts or Honours Arts and Business.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, careers?
Please contact our Faculty of Arts recruitment team who can answer any questions you have.

 
Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochure 