
 Sustainability meets profitability

Nature has always been close to Asser's heart. He grew up in the Philippines surrounded by the abundance of trees, ocean, wildlife, and farms. But he also experienced the not-so-good parts like typhoons. "I chose Environment and Business because it intersects my passion for climate action, corporate social responsibility, and sustainable finance."
Smart businesses know that sustainability must be a core part of their plan. In Environment and Business — the only program of its kind in North America — you’ll develop an in-depth knowledge of environmental issues and the business world.
You'll get the foundations of a business degree with courses in economics, finance, marketing, and management, and you'll get an environmental education including field ecology and human geography. Plus, you'll learn how to integrate environment and business knowledge through specialized courses in corporate sustainability, social marketing, and more.
When you graduate, you’ll be ready to make a difference, whether that’s developing business plans for renewable energy suppliers, analyzing the environmental record of a Fortune 500 company, or helping businesses reduce their ecological impacts.
Program highlights
20 months of job experience. You’ll get plenty of hands-on experience through 20 months of paid co-op work experience, plus a fourth-year capstone project where you’ll do sustainability consulting for real-world clients.
Grow your own green business. Have an idea for an environmental business or social enterprise? Take a course in green entrepreneurship. Or drop by Entrepreneurship at Environment (E@E) to work on your business plan with one-on-one coaching from an experienced advisor.
Offered as a co-op program only
Graduate with a Bachelor of Environmental Studies
Offered by the Faculty of Environment
What will you learn? 

First-year courses
During your first year, you'll take a mix of foundational Environment and Business (ENBUS) and Accounting and Financial Management courses.
In your upper years, most of your classes will be in ENBUS.
Learn about the courses you'll take for your degree.


Customize your degree
You can add additional expertise to your degree by choosing one of the minors available to all Waterloo students.
Some popular choices for Environment and Business students include minors in Geography and Environmental Management, Economics, and Entrepreneurship.

 

Get tips from Waterloo students
Join our monthly newsletter for tips such as choosing a university program, life at Waterloo, and finances.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Contact a student ambassador
Ask a Faculty of Environment student about their program, classes, getting involved on campus, and more!
Questions?Contact an Environment student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve.

Sample co-op job titles
Assistant environmental planner
Sustainability coordinator
Air quality and climate change coordinator
Research associate
Junior policy analyst
Operations and logistics analyst
Environmental technician
Sustainability business outreach, education, and marketing coordinator

 
 



What can you do with a degree in Environment and Business?

Our graduates often pursue careers in health and safety, project management, and environment. They often work in consulting, banks, manufacturing, various levels of government, and more.
Recent graduates
Manager, Environmental Stewardship & Compliance - Home Depot of Canada
Environmental Health and Safety Specialist - NTN Bearing
Project Manager - Peritus Environmental Consultants
Environment, Health, and Safety Specialist - Amazon Canada
Planning Coordinator, Climate Change - Region of Waterloo
Project Manager, Renewal Energy - City of Toronto
Technology Analyst - Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Learn about the future of careers in business.


"I really value the program's flexibility and the skill set I'll graduate with. While I'm a passionate environmentalist, I also value the practical business aspect of my program, which will open up more job opportunities for me!"Michelle, second-year Environment and Business student"I value knowing how to apply theories learned in class to a working environment through co-op. Plus being involved in clubs lets you meet new people from different backgrounds."Medha, Environment and Business co-op student
Admission requirements
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Any Grade 12 U English (final grade of 70% is required)
Recommended courses: one Grade 12 U Mathematics, one Grade 12 U Science, Grade 12M Principles of Financial Accounting, Analysing Current Economic Issues (where offered)
Admission averages: Low 80s
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements.
How to apply?
Apply directly to this program on your application.
 


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, or careers?
Please contact Jaime, our Faculty of Environment recruitment coordinator who can answer any questions you have.


 
Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochure 