
Engineer the environment for a better future

As climate change and resource scarcity accelerate at an alarming rate, it’s critical that we design solutions that protect the planet we all call home.
As an Environmental Engineering student, you can help combat the critical environmental challenges facing our natural and built structures. You'll gain the skills to design smarter water treatment and distribution systems, clean contaminated soil, or even prevent E. coli outbreaks.
At Waterloo, you can nurture your passion for sustainability, mathematics, and science. Meanwhile, you’ll gain two years of paid experience through six co-op work terms, allowing you to earn money and to discover the career areas that fit you best.
You’ll graduate ready to clean up the world’s pollution — and lead and innovate smart environmental design in any sector.
Program highlights
Learn at one of the world's top universities. Waterloo is ranked #1 in Canada for environmental science and engineering (Academic World Ranking of Universities 2023).
Protect the planet. Waterloo’s strong background in water research can lead to careers in watershed restoration, water treatment, habitat protection, and air pollution mitigation.
A welcoming environment. Class sizes range from 60 to 70 students, so you’ll get to know your classmates – and your professors – in a friendly and stimulating setting.

Offered as a co-op program only
Graduate with a Bachelor of Applied Science in Environmental Engineering
Offered by the Faculty of Engineering

Why Waterloo Engineering?
Watch video on YouTube
Environmental Engineering is an ideal program for students who want to gain the skills needed to design smarter water treatment and distribution, clean contaminated soil, or even prevent E. coli outbreaks
What will you learn? 
During your first year, you'll take a mix of foundational engineering, math, and communication courses. In upper years, most of your classes will be in Environmental Engineering.
Learn more about the courses you'll take for your Environmental Engineering degree.

Get tips from Waterloo students
Join our monthly newsletter for tips such as choosing a university program, life at Waterloo, and finances.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Questions? Ask a student!
Ask a Faculty of Engineering student about their program, classes, getting involved on campus, and more!
Questions?Contact an Engineering student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve.

Sample co-op job titles
Drainage design engineering assistant
Environmental engineering assistant
Technical writer
Tides and water levels assistant
Field engineering / project coordinator
Industrial wastewater engineering
Program developer

 
 



What careers can you pursue with an Environmental Engineering degree?

Graduates often pursue careers that can positively impact the environment around us such as consulting, operations, and more. They typically work in government, for cities, and for environmental consulting firms.
Recent graduates
Environmental Consultant – Pottinger Gaherty Environmental Consultants
Water Resources Specialist – Golder Associates
Environmental Specialist – Public Works & Government Services Canada
Project Coordinator – David Schaeffer Engineering
Geomatics Analyst – Monteith & Sutherland Geospatial Solutions
Operations Specialist – CLEAResult
Water Resource Engineer in Training – AECOM
Possible professional designation
Professional Engineer
Learn about the future of careers in engineering.



Student life, including Women in Engineering


Student design teams
Have fun and develop hands-on experience through one or more of our 25+ student-led design teams! Design teams include rocketry, concrete canoe, robotics, solar car, submarine racing, autonomous vehicle, Space X Hyperloop, Formula Motorsports, Engineers Without Borders, and more.
You’ll meet people with similar interests and goals, benefit from networking with experts in the engineering profession, and develop some great skills for your résumé.


Women in Engineering
Women in Engineering (WiE) supports female students and engineers while encouraging the next generation of women to pursue careers in engineering. Regardless of gender, orientation, or background, you’re welcome to join this inclusive community to participate in outreach events as well as mentorship and volunteer opportunities.
Any student is also welcome to join Women in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (WiSTEM), a student-run club that promotes equality in STEM through skills workshops, discussions, and guest speakers.

 

Engineering Society (EngSoc)
EngSoc is run by students for students and provides many social and academic events and services to make your experience as a Waterloo Engineering student the best it can be.
Benefit from mentoring for first-year students or get involved and meet other students through an annual conference, semiformal, career fair, charity events, community outreach, and much more!


Campus-wide activities
Our campus is packed with opportunities to get involved – no matter how unique your interests. Between our 250+ student-run clubs, sports and recreation opportunities, student government, and events, student life at Waterloo has something for everyone.

 


Environmental Engineering admission requirements

Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Advanced Functions (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Calculus and Vectors (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Physics (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Chemistry (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
English (ENG4U) (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Admission averages: Individual selection from the mid- to high 80s


Complete the Admission Information Form once you've applied.
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements.

 
How to apply
Apply directly to this program on your application.
Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochure
Related programs
Geological Engineering
Environmental Science
Climate and Environmental Change


Learn more
Visit our Environmental Engineering program website.

 
 