
Conserve and protect

Use insights from the natural and social sciences to help solve some of the world’s biggest environmental and sustainability challenges — from water scarcity to pollution to loss of biodiversity.
Learn about conserving and restoring ecosystems, and explore issues in environmental governance. And thanks to our small classes, you’ll develop a real sense of community right from first year.
When you graduate, you can apply your knowledge in a growing number of fields, from green technology to ecological consulting to environmental law. And if you want an early start, you can also apply that knowledge to paid co-op work terms.
Program highlights
Get career-relevant skills. Whether you choose the regular or co-op stream, you’ll get plenty of hands-on experience through case studies, field trips, and community projects.
30+ possible minors. In one of the most flexible programs at Waterloo, you can add one of more than 30 minors to your degree. Or do a double major. Or add an option. So go ahead: customize your degree to your interests!

Work one on one with a professor. In your final year, focus on your interests and dive into the world of research during an eight-month independent research project on a topic of your choice.

Available as a regular or co-op program
Available as a major and minor
Graduate with a Bachelor of Environmental Studies
Offered by the Faculty of Environment
Watch video on YouTube
Tackling climate change on an individual level can feel daunting. Where do you start? What could you even do to make a difference? Ashoke, an Environment, Resources, and Sustainability student, is looking to make the fight against climate change feel more attainable by spreading the message that any positive action we each take – big or small – can create change.
What will you learn? 

First-year courses
During your first year, you'll take a mix of Environment, Resources, and Sustainability (ERS) and Environmental Studies courses.
In your upper years, about half of the classes you'll take will be in ERS.
Learn more about the courses you'll take for your ERS degree.


Customize your degree
You can add additional expertise to your degree by choosing one of the minors available to all Waterloo students.
Popular choices include Geography and Environmental Management and Biology. You can also pursue a double major to really focus on two subjects.

 

Get tips from Waterloo students
Join our monthly newsletter for tips such as choosing a university program, life at Waterloo, and finances.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Contact a student ambassador
Ask a Faculty of Environment student about their program, classes, getting involved on campus, and more!
Questions?Contact an Environment student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve, developing valuable work experience in your field of study.

Sample co-op job titles
Shorebird and waterbird field technician
Ecological assistant
Food loss & waste data collection
Species at risk research student assistant
Landfill operations
Sport fish technician
Research assistant
Program coordinator

 
 



What can you do with a degree in Environment, Resources and Sustainability?

Graduates commonly pursue careers in education, environment, and research. They often work in government ministries, environmental consulting firms, and more.
Recent graduates
Program Advisor – Ontario Ministry of Environment and Climate Change
Park Naturalist – Ministry of Natural Resources, Ontario
Teacher – Waterloo Region District School Board
Environmental Scientist – Conestoga-Rovers & Associates
Ecologist – Dougan & Associates
Biologist – Ministry of Natural Resources, Ontario
Environmental Consultant – North Shore Environmental Consultants
Further education
While the full range of further education depends on your individual interests, our graduates often pursue Master’s degrees in political science and public policy, attend law school, or apply to a faculty of education to become a teacher.
Learn about the future of careers in environment, sustainability, and geography.


"ERS has always felt extremely broad and never focused on one aspect. This has kept me really engaged as I learn something different and unique each day. Professors are always happy to help so make sure to reach out when you need a hand!"Nickie, second-year Environment, Resources and Sustainability student
Admission requirements
Ontario students
Six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including any Grade 12 U English (a final grade of 70% is required)
Admission average: Low 80s
Not an Ontario high school student? Search our admission requirements. 
How to apply?
Apply directly to this program on your application.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, or careers?
Please contact Jaime, our Faculty of Environment recruitment coordinator, who can answer any questions you have.


 
Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochureRelated programs
Environment and Business
Environmental Engineering
Environmental Sciences
Geography and Environmental Management
 