
Explore the power of visual communication

In Fine Arts, you’ll hone your mastery of technique, develop a cohesive body of work, and learn the skills you’ll need as a professional artist. Whatever your interest, you’ll enjoy an intimate community and supportive professors.
Choose one of two majors
Visual Culture: Got a bent for critique? Focus on the role that visuals play into culture and our society. This major is excellent preparation for a career as an art historian, educator, librarian, or gallery/museum administrator. You can even gain practical experience with a 36-hour internship at a local arts institution, or by choosing co-op with your degree.
Studio Practice: Immerse yourself in hands-on creation. Choose from classes in drawing, painting, sculpture, printmaking, photography, media arts, and digital imaging. You can also choose a digital art specialization or one that will prepare you for a career in teaching.
Program highlights
Pick from 80+ courses. With more than 80 Fine Arts courses available, you can explore the visual arts and tailor your degree to your interests and passions.
Make lasting connections. Many studio classes are capped at 25 students, creating an environment where you can connect with your classmates and instructors.
Why study Fine Arts at Waterloo
Watch video on VimeoAvailable as a regular or co-op program
Available as a major and minor
Graduate with a Bachelor of Arts in Studio Practice or Visual Culture
Offered by the Faculty of Arts
What will you learn?

First-year courses
During your first year, you'll take two introductory Fine Arts courses. Plus, you'll have electives to explore an additional major of your choosing.
In upper years, 40% of the classes you'll take will be courses in your major.
Learn more about courses you'll take for your Fine Arts degree.


Customize your degree
With either Fine Arts major, you can include additional areas of interest by including a minor (or minors) as part of your degree.
Within the Studio Practice major, you can choose specializations in Digital Art or Teaching Preparation. With the Teaching Preparation specialization, you'll be eligible for the Bachelor of Education program at Nipissing University in either the Junior/Intermediate or Intermediate/Senior divisions.

 

Get tips from Waterloo students
Join our newsletter for tips such as choosing a program, life at Waterloo, and finances.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Questions? Ask a student!
Ask a Faculty of Arts student about their program, classes, getting involved on campus, and more!
Questions?Contact an Arts student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve. 

Sample co-op job titles
Graphic designer
Web content management specialist
Marketing coordinator
Digital media project assistant
Events & motivational programs student
App design guru
Communications coordinator

 
 



What can you do with a Fine Arts degree?

Graduates often pursue careers in creative fields such as marketing, design, and education. They commonly work in art galleries, banks, schools, media companies, and more.
Recent graduates
Designer & Technologist – Whiting Design
Graphic Designer – Punch & Judy 
User Experience Designer – Green Brick Labs
Junior Character Rigger – Big Jump Productions
Brick Laser Apprentice – Kitchener Glass
Instructor – Conestoga College
Artist - C.O.R.E. Digital Pictures
Learn about the future of careers in arts, humanities, social sciences, languages, and creative arts.



Admissions
Apply to Honours Arts or Honours Arts and Business and choose Studio Practice or Visual Culture as your major at the end of first year.
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Any Grade 12 U English (minimum final grade of at least 70%)
Admission average: Low 80s (co-op and regular)
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements for Honours Arts or Honours Arts and Business.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, careers?
Please contact our Faculty of Arts recruitment team who can answer any questions you have.

 
Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochure 