
 À Waterloo, les possibilités sont infinies

In a bilingual country and an ever-more globalized world, knowledge of French as a second language gives you an edge in almost any field.
At Waterloo, you can choose language courses that range from basic to advanced, as well as a wide variety of courses in French linguistics, translation, literature, culture, and civilization. You’ll learn from professors that include a Canada research chair and professors whose expertise cover French from a global and diverse perspective.
Meanwhile, if you're interested in gaining paid work experience through North America's largest co-op program, apply to Honours Arts or Honours Arts and Business Co-op and choose French as your major at the end of first year.
Program highlights
Immersive opportunities. Live at La Bastille, a French residence floor at Waterloo's United College. Or immerse yourself in culture and improve your language skills by studying in Quebec, France, or Switzerland for one or two terms.
A fast track to teaching. Interested in teaching? Our French Teaching Specialization offers direct admission to the Faculty of Education at Nipissing University once you've completed your degree here.


Available as a regular or co-op program
Available as a major and minor
Graduate with a Bachelor of Arts in French
Offered by the Faculty of Arts
What will you learn? 

First-year courses
During your first year, you'll take two French courses. Plus, you'll have electives to explore an additional major of your choosing. In upper years, 40% of the classes you'll take will be French courses.
Learn about courses you'll take for your French degree.


Customize your degree
You can add additional areas of expertise to your degree by choosing the French Teaching Specialization or one or more of the minors available to all Waterloo students. Popular areas of focus for French students include Psychology and Applied Language Studies.

 



Get tips from Waterloo students
Join our newsletter for tips such as choosing a program, life at Waterloo, and finances.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Questions? Ask a student!
Ask a Faculty of Arts student about their program, classes, getting involved on campus, and more!
Questions?Contact an Arts student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve. 

Sample co-op job titles
Social media & student engagement coordinator
Research analyst
Project coordinator
Alumni relations and events assistant
Developer community associate

 
 



What can you do with a degree in French?

Waterloo French graduates typically pursue careers where they can exercise their multi-language skills such as in communications roles, sales, translation, and education. They often work in schools, government, financial institutions and more.
Recent graduates
Marketing Communications Manager - TELUS Communications
Curator - Sombra Museum
Bilingual Credit Advisor - RBC
University Program Specialist - Google Canada
Bilingual Sales Agent - Fibernectics
Immigration Officer - Human Resources Development Canada
Translator - Manulife Financial
Learn about the future of careers in arts, humanities, social sciences, languages, and creative arts.


"The professors are incredible, resourceful, knowledgeable and friendly. Co-op (or in my case, volunteer placements) allowed me to ensure that I’m going into the field that’s right for me, giving me practical experience and opportunities to network."Sydney, French graduate 
Admissions
Apply to Honours Arts or Honours Arts and Business and choose French as your major at the end of first year.
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Any Grade 12 U English (minimum final grade of at least 70%)
Admission average: Low 80s (co-op and regular)
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements for Honours Arts or Honours Arts and Business.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, careers?
Please contact our Faculty of Arts recruitment team who can answer any questions you have.

 


Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochure 