
 Advocate for gender equality, social justice, and positive change

Explore the ways society is shaped by gender. Be an advocate for equity, justice, and positive change. Learn the important role gender and sex play in all aspects of life. Over the course of your degree, you’ll develop a deep expertise in issues of gender, diversity, equality, and social justice.
You’ll be joining a highly-engaged group of students who are active members of their student society, department, and university as well as the student-led Women’s Centre, The Glow Centre for Sexual and Gender Diversity, and the surrounding community. You'll also have the opportunity to gain work experience through co-op.
Program highlights
Join a global movement. Waterloo is the only Canadian university invited to join the United Nations’ HeForShe IMPACT 10x10x10 framework to advance gender equity.
Get serious work experience. You’ll also have the option to gain real-world job experience, with paid co-op experience available through both the Honours Arts and Business and the Honour Arts programs.


Available as a regular or co-op program
Available as a major and minor
Graduate with a Bachelor of Arts in Gender and Social Justice
Offered by the Faculty of Arts
What will you learn? 

First-year courses
During your first year, you'll take three introductory Gender and Social Justice (GSJ) courses. Plus, you'll have electives to explore an additional major of your choosing. In upper years, 40% of the classes you'll take will be GSJ courses.
Learn about courses you'll take for your Gender and Social Justice degree.


Customize your degree
You can add additional areas of expertise by including one or more of the minors available to all Waterloo students.

 

Get tips from Waterloo students
Join our newsletter for tips such as choosing a program, life at Waterloo, and finances.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Contact a student ambassador
Ask a Faculty of Arts student about their program, classes, getting involved on campus, and more!
Questions?Contact an Arts student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By taking what you learn about gender studies and social justice in class and combining it with paid work experience through our co-op program, you'll gain relevant work experience and be able to explore new career areas and types of employers as your interests evolve.

Sample co-op job titles
Digital marketing intern
Teaching assistant
Customer success lead

 
 



What can you do with a degree in gender studies and social justice?

Upon graduating, you'll be primed for a career in law, social policy planning, community action, counselling, teaching, human rights, or many other fields. Or take your studies further and pursue a master's program in a variety of areas.
Recent graduates
Counselling Co-ordinator - Planned Parenthood
Social Worker - Elizabeth Fry Society
Teacher - Grand River Collegiate Institute
Learn about the future of careers in arts, humanities, social sciences, languages, and creative arts.



Admissions
Apply to Honours Arts or Honours Arts and Business and choose Gender and Social Justice as your major at the end of first year.
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Any Grade 12 U English (minimum final grade of at least 70%)
Admission average: Low 80s (co-op and regular)
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements for Honours Arts or Honours Arts and Business.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, careers?
Please contact our Faculty of Arts recruitment team who can answer any questions you have.

 
Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochureRelated programs
Sexuality, Marriage and Family Studies
Peace and Conflict Studies
 