
Join the movement, meet the moment.

Geography and Environmental Management allowed Cassandra to embark on an Arctic adventure. She participated in a comprehensive study of the north, exploring interconnections between the human and physical environment while analyzing the impacts of climate change. Photo credit: Jeff Topham, One Ocean Expeditions
Explore how people shape the planet we live on. Delve into the dynamics of the Earth’s physical systems. Help solve many of the world’s most pressing problems, such as climate change, water scarcity, resource management, global population growth, natural resource sustainability, and more.
Ranked 4th in Canada for research and reputation (QS World University Rankings by Subject 2023), Waterloo's Geography and Environmental Management department is one of Canada's largest. Follow us on Instagram to learn about our 70+ geography courses, including lots of field studies, as well as gaining paid work experience through co-op.
Use the program's flexibility to focus your degree with specializations and options or even add another major. You’ll quickly connect with other students in the Faculty of Environment’s welcoming and close-knit community.
Program highlights
Study in Asia or the Canadian Arctic. Gain experience with environmental issues around the world through field studies in the Arctic or in countries such as Nepal or Indonesia.
30+ possible minors. Include additional interests and skills by adding one of more than 30 minors to your degree. Or do a double major. Or add an option. So go ahead: customize your degree to your interests!
Hone your technical skills. Learn remote sensing techniques, produce professional-quality maps, and get your hands dirty during field trips.
Available as a regular or co-op program
Available as a major and a minor
Graduate with a Bachelor of Environmental Studies in Geography and Environmental Management
Offered by the Faculty of Environment
What will you learn?

First-year courses
During your first year, you'll take a combination of geography and environmental studies courses.
In your upper years, about half of the classes you'll take will be in geography.
Learn more about the courses you'll take for your Geography and Environmental Management degree.


Customize your degree
You can add additional areas of expertise to your degree by including one or more of the areas of focus within the program.
Aviation
Climate Change and Environment
Earth Systems Science
Economy and Society
Geomatics
You can also choose one of the minors available to all Waterloo students.

 

Get tips from Waterloo students
Join our monthly newsletter for tips such as choosing a university program, life at Waterloo, and finances.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Contact a student ambassador
Ask a Faculty of Environment student about their program, classes, getting involved on campus, and more!
Questions?Contact an Environment student
 

Become a global student
Geography and Environmental Management was the perfect option for Sam to explore her interests in travel, culture, and global issues.




 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve.

Sample co-op job titles
Aquatic research technician
Forester/forest technician
Agroclimate analyst
GIS technician
Habitat data officer
Lakewide management support
Sustainability projects coordinator

 
 



What can you do with a geography degree?

Graduates often work in conservancy, education, government, business, non-profits, and consulting.
Conservation Technician – Nature Conservancy of Canada
Planner, Parks & Recreation – Monteith Brown Planning Consultant
Geographic Information System Technician – Algonquin Power & Utilities
Aquatic Specialist – Wood Environment & Infrastructure Solutions
Research Associate – Environics Analytics Group
Junior Environmental Scientist – BluMetric Environmental
Environmental Planner – Ministry of Transportation, Ontario
Learn about the future of careers in environment, sustainability, and geography


"I really like the small class sizes – and the flexibility to customize your degree with specializations, minors, or another major. Plus the field opportunities in Canada and internationally teach you many different things about geography in real life."Lawrence, fourth-year Geography and Environmental Management student"I really like the degree of customization available. I was given foundational skills, but also freedom to follow my interests. Through courses, co-op, and clubs, I found connections between ideas that I wouldn't have seen otherwise."Devon, fourth-year Geography and Environmental Management co-op student"Geography and Environmental Management is great for anyone passionate about earth sciences and world issues. By incorporating a variety of specializations, you can focus on a specific area of geography or combine interests to form a unique degree."Farah, second-year Geography and Environmental Management student"My geography classes are about the same size as in high school, making them feel tight-knit and easing the transition into university. I made friends through my classes and found an instantaneous support network I've carried with me in my studies."Simon, third-year Geography and Environmental Management student
Admission requirements
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Any Grade 12 U English (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Admission averages: Low 80s

How to apply
Apply directly to this program on your application.


Not studying in Ontario?
Search our admission requirements.

 


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, or careers?
Contact Jaime, our Faculty of Environment recruitment coordinator who can answer any questions you have.


 
Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochureRelated programs
Geography and Aviation
Geomatics
Environment, Resources and Sustainability
 