
 Launch a high-flying career in the aviation industry

Do you dream of being a pilot? Take to the skies with the largest university-level aviation program in Canada.
You’ll earn a Bachelor of Environmental Studies from one of the country’s top-ranked geography departments – and graduate with your Commercial Pilot Licence. There’s no better way to appreciate geography than from several thousand feet above the ground. And your knowledge of geography will be an asset when you’re navigating across continents.
Between the classroom and the cockpit, you’ll gain a deep understanding of landforms, weather patterns, and the computer technology behind tools such as geographic information systems (GIS) and remote sensing.
Program highlights
Log 200+ flight hours. Through a partnership with the Waterloo Wellington Flight Centre, you'll receive at least 200 hours of in-the-air experience at one of Canada's largest flight training centres.
Build crucial skills. As well as learning to fly, you’ll obtain your multi-engine and multi-instrument ratings, giving you the skills you need to handle twin-engine aircraft in all sorts of weather.
Offered through the regular system of study 
Graduate with a Bachelor of Environmental Studies in Geography and Aviation along with your Commercial Pilot Licence
Offered by the Faculty of Environment
Geography and Aviation at Waterloo
Watch video on YouTube
Chelsea-Anne recalls her first time flying on her own, her first time flying with her mom, and shares a glimpse into the life of an aviation student.
What will you learn?

First-year courses
During your first year, you'll take a mix of foundational aviation, geography, and environmental courses.
In your upper years, about half of the classes you'll take will be in aviation, and the other half will be related to geography.
Courses you'll take for your Geography and Aviation degree →


Customize your degree
You can add additional areas of expertise by including one or more of the areas of focus within the program.
Climate Change and Environment
Earth Systems Science
Economy and Society
Geomatics​​

 

Get tips from Waterloo students
Join our monthly newsletter for tips such as choosing a university program, life at Waterloo, and finances.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Questions? Ask a student!
Ask a Faculty of Environment student about their program, classes, getting involved on campus, and more!
Questions?Contact an Environment student
 

What can you do with a degree in aviation?

Graduates often work at airlines and flights centres as either pilots or flight instructors.
Recent graduates
Pilot – WestJet Airlines
Pilot, First Officer – Sunwing Airlines
Flight Instructor – Waterloo-Wellington Flight Centre
First Officer – Sunwing Airlines
Flight Instructor – Brampton Flight Centre
Pilot – Air Canada
Learn about the future of careers in environment, sustainability, and geography.



Admission requirements
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
English (ENG4U) (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
One Grade 12 U Mathematics course (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Admission average: Mid-80s
Qualified applicants will be asked to complete a screening process by the Waterloo-Wellington Flight Centre that includes a program briefing session, Transport Canada Category 1 Medical Certification, and an Aviation Language Proficiency Test (for Permanent Residents and visa students only; the medical certification must be completed prior to writing the test).
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements.
How to apply?
Apply directly to this program on your application.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, or careers?
Please contact Jaime, our Faculty of Environment recruitment coordinator, who can answer any questions you have.


 
Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochureRelated programs
Science and Aviation
Geography and Environmental Management
 