
The world is your office

From some of the farthest corners of the Earth to the most tech-savvy environments, Geological Engineering offers adventure and the ability to make a difference.
Harness the physical mechanics of the earth’s surface to solve complex problems. Ensure the safety of dams and pipelines, assess risks for landslides and earthquakes, remove hazardous contamination from groundwater, and more.
Waterloo’s program is one of only two in Ontario. You’ll take Civil Engineering classes where you’ll learn design and problem-solving skills. You’ll also take Earth Sciences classes to acquire a solid background in geosciences. Meanwhile, through co-op, you'll gain two years of related work experience.
Don’t want to be stuck at a desk all day? You’ll have the opportunity to examine geological processes first-hand through field courses.
When you graduate, your degree can take you around the world — working in natural resource and mineral exploration, groundwater protection and management, geohazard prevention and mitigation, infrastructure planning, and more.
Program highlights
Field courses and field labs. Study earth sciences through an engineering lens with extensive field-based courses and labs that'll take you from Waterloo's campus to northern Ontario and beyond.
Make lasting connections. With just 15 to 20 students in first year, you’ll develop strong bonds with your classmates and your professors.
Offered as a co-op program only
Graduate with a Bachelor of Applied Science in Geological Engineering
Offered by the Faculty of Engineering
Combine geology with an engineering education
Watch video on YouTube
Geological Engineering merges geoscience with innovative design to guide humanity's interaction with Earth materials and Earth system processes.
What will you learn? 
In first year, you'll take a mix of Geological Engineering, chemistry, physics, math, and communication courses. In your upper years, most of your courses will be in Geological Engineering and Earth Sciences.
Learn more about the courses you'll take for your Geological Engineering degree.

Get tips from Waterloo students
Join our monthly newsletter for tips such as choosing a university program, life at Waterloo, and finances.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Questions? Ask a student!
Ask a Faculty of Engineering student about their program, classes, getting involved on campus, and more!
Questions?Contact an Engineering student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve.

Sample co-op job titles
Geotechnical engineering assistant
Field engineering / project coordinator
Industrial buildings inspector
Mining / energy engineering student
Rock mechanics assistant
Water - wastewater project assistant
Geotechnical & materials technician

 
 



Combine geology and engineering for a rewarding career

For Waterloo graduates, the world is their office. They commonly pursue careers in engineering consulting, mining, and public health, while merging both tech and the outdoors. They often work for engineering firms, government departments, and more.
Recent graduates
Geological Engineer – AMEC
Geotechnical Design – Shell Canada
Rock Mechanics Engineer – Glencore, Kidd Creek Operations
Geological Engineer – BGC Engineering 
Water Specialist – Ontario Fruit and Vegetable Growers’ Association
Geotechnical Engineer – Pretium Resources
Junior Program Engineer – Environment & Climate Change Canada
Possible professional designation
Professional Engineer, Professional Geologist
Learn about the future of careers in engineering.



Student life, including Women in Engineering


Student design teams
Have fun and develop hands-on experience through one or more of our 25+ student-led design teams! Design teams include rocketry, concrete canoe, robotics, solar car, submarine racing, autonomous vehicle, Space X Hyperloop, Formula Motorsports, Engineers Without Borders, and more.
You’ll meet people with similar interests and goals, benefit from networking with experts in the engineering profession, and develop some great skills for your résumé.


Women in Engineering
Women in Engineering (WiE) supports female students and engineers while encouraging the next generation of women to pursue careers in engineering. Regardless of gender, orientation, or background, you’re welcome to join this inclusive community to participate in outreach events as well as mentorship and volunteer opportunities.
Any student is also welcome to join Women in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (WiSTEM), a student-run club that promotes equality in STEM through skills workshops, discussions, and guest speakers.

 

Engineering Society (EngSoc)
EngSoc is run by students for students and provides many social and academic events and services to make your experience as a Waterloo Engineering student the best it can be.
Benefit from mentoring for first-year students or get involved and meet other students through an annual conference, semiformal, career fair, charity events, community outreach, and much more!


Campus-wide activities
Our campus is packed with opportunities to get involved – no matter how unique your interests. Between our 250+ student-run clubs, sports and recreation opportunities, student government, and events, student life at Waterloo has something for everyone.

 


"The idea of being an engineer with an earth science background was really appealing along with the ability to be both a professional engineer and a professional geoscientist."Brittany Russo, Geological Engineering studentAdmission requirements

Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Advanced Functions (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Calculus and Vectors (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Chemistry (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Physics (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
English (ENG4U) (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Admission averages: Individual selection from the mid- to high 80s


Complete the Admission Information Form once you've applied.
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements.

 
How to apply
Apply directly to this program on your application.
Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochure
Related programs
Environmental Engineering
Earth Sciences


Learn more
Visit our Geological Engineering program website.

 
 