
 Harness the power of geographic data.

Geomatics combines computer science with geographic data analysis to devise data-driven solutions to complex problems, like mapping the response time of fire services and fire stations.
Learn to use tools such as remote sensing, computer mapping, geographic information systems (GIS), and GPS to analyze geographic data, understand spatial data, and make meaningful decisions. At the same time, you’ll also learn the fundamentals of software design from Waterloo’s computer science experts and have the opportunity to apply your knowledge and gain paid work experience in co-op.
Once you graduate, you’ll find no end of opportunities to put your skills to work. Help governments prepare for natural hazards such as floods. Track crime rates or the spread of disease. Map demographics for businesses, or develop transportation routes for municipalities. In this rapidly growing field, our grads are in high demand!
Program highlights
Get career-relevant skills. Because we’ll train you on the advanced industry tools and techniques such as remote sensing, drones, and global positioning receivers, you’re ready to make an impact from day one of your career.
Gain valuable computing skills. Take additional courses at Waterloo’s world-class Cheriton School of Computer Science, and you can include a Computing minor as part of your degree.

Available as a regular or co-op program
Graduate with a Bachelor of Environmental Studies
Offered by the Faculty of Environment

Watch video on YouTube
If you’re interested in geography, spatial data, policy making, and analyzing data, Pedro recommends earning a degree in Geomatics.
What will you learn?  

First-year courses
During your first year, you'll take foundational geography, environmental studies, English, and math courses.
In your upper years, about half of the classes you'll take will focus on geography and geomatics.
Learn more about the courses you'll take for your Geomatics degree.


Customize your degree
You can also add additional areas of expertise by including one or more of the areas of focus within the program.
Aviation
Climate Change and Environment
Earth Systems Science
Economy and Society
You can also include one of the minors available to all Waterloo students. Popular choices include Biology and Earth Sciences. 

 

Get tips from Waterloo students
Join our monthly newsletter for tips such as choosing a university program, life at Waterloo, and finances.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Contact a student ambassador
Ask a Faculty of Environment student about their program, classes, getting involved on campus, and more!
Questions?Contact an Environment student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve.

Sample co-op job titles
GIS operator
Education consultant
GIS & data management student
Map design support
Junior GIS assistant
Geomatics plan technician

 
 



What can you do with a Geomatics degree?

Graduates often pursue careers in areas such as land use, engineering technology, spatial analysis, natural resources, consulting, and software development.
Recent graduates
Geographic Information System Analyst – Canada Post
Geomatics Analyst – Public Safety & Emergency Preparedness Canada
Senior Application Analyst – Accenture (US)
Geographic Information System Specialist – Canacre
Analyst – Department of National Defence
Geographic Information System Computer-Aided Design Technician – City of Windsor
Software Developer – Fortigo Freight Services
Learn about the future of careers in environment, sustainability, and geography.


"From remote sensing and GIS to learning how to analyze geographic output, the skills we learn encompass both qualitative and quantitative aspects. And with Canada's leading co-op program, you can apply these skills to a wide variety of topics."Martin, second-year Geomatics co-op student"The professors are amazing and very approachable. With small class sizes, you can get to know each other on a first-name basis, which makes classes more enjoyable. Plus there's enough freedom to take courses in other areas of interest as electives!"Liam, third-year Geomatics student
Admission requirements
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including 
Any Grade 12 U English (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Any Grade 12 U Mathematics course (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Admission average: Low 80s
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements.
How to apply
Apply directly to this program on your application.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, or careers?
Contact Jaime, our Faculty of Environment recruitment coordinator who can answer any questions you have.


 
 
Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochureRelated programs
Geography and Environmental Management
Planning
 