
 An education that’s wunderbar

In an interconnected world, fluency in another language and culture pays big dividends.
At Waterloo, we offer much more than just German language courses. Explore German culture, film, literature, and linguistics, or add classes in other Slavic languages like Russian and Croatian, all with the additional appeal of work experience through co-op.
The language skills and cultural competence you develop over the course of your degree will serve you well in a variety of careers, including education, business, and government.
Program highlights
Average class size = 15. With our small classes, you’ll never feel lost in the crowd. Our student-centred program focuses on your personal and professional development, while the student-run German Society regularly organizes movie nights, discussions, meals, and more.
Guten tag, Deutschland! Deepen your experience by spending up to a year studying in Germany at the University of Bamberg or the University of Mannheim. We offer scholarships for travel-abroad opportunities!


Available as a regular or co-op program
Available as a major and minor
Graduate with a Bachelor of Arts in German
Offered by the Faculty of Arts
What will you learn?  

First-year courses
During your first year, you'll take three introductory German courses. Plus, you'll have electives to explore an additional major of your choosing. In upper years, 40% of the classes you'll take will be German courses.
Learn about courses you'll take for your German degree.


Customize your degree
You can add additional areas of expertise by including one or more of the minors available to all Waterloo students.

 

Get tips from Waterloo students
Join our newsletter for tips such as choosing a program, life at Waterloo, and finances.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Questions? Ask a student!
Ask a Faculty of Arts student about their program, classes, getting involved on campus, and more!
Questions?Contact an Arts student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve.

Sample co-op job titles
Analyst - Derivatives Product Management
Student Life Assistant

 
 



What can you do with a degree in German?

Waterloo German graduates commonly pursue careers in communications, business development, project coordination, and teaching. They often work for government departments, technology companies, and schools.
Recent graduates
Supply Teacher - Toronto Catholic District School Board
Leiterin Geschaftsstelle - IT-Forum Rhein-Neckar
Programme Manager - Graduate School Rhein-Neckar
Editor & Corporate Communications Manager - Canadian German Chamber of Industry and Commerce
Founder & President - Energrow Inc.
Music Teacher - Internationella Engelska Skolan
Learn about the future of careers in arts, humanities, social sciences, languages, and creative arts.



Admissions
Apply to Honours Arts or Honours Arts and Business and choose German as your major at the end of first year.
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Any Grade 12 U English (minimum final grade of at least 70%)
Admission average: Low 80s (co-op and regular)
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements for Honours Arts or Honours Art and Business.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, careers?
Please contact our Faculty of Arts recruitment team who can answer any questions you have.

 
 
Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochure 