
Have a mind for business and a flair for design?
Hone the creative, technical, and business skills you need to thrive in a fast-evolving world.
In this unique program, you’ll spend your first year at Waterloo's main campus, where you'll gain a solid foundation linking creative design, globalization, business ethics, economics, and marketing.
For your final three years, you'll move to our Stratford School of Interaction Design and Business, located 45 kilometres west of the main campus. There, you'll develop design-driven solutions to social problems and create new forms of cultural expressions in a global context. And thanks to our project-based approach, you’ll also hone your collaboration and project management skills.
Program highlights
Drool-worthy tech. Waterloo’s Stratford School boasts facilities that include a recording studio, video editing suites, a UX observation room, and more.
Study overseas. Want to see the world and gain a more international perspective? Spend your third year studying in England, Hong Kong, or Australia — to name just a few options.
Gain experience through paid co-op work terms
Graduate with a Bachelor of Global Business and Digital Arts (BGBDA)
Offered by the Faculty of Arts
Watch video on YouTube
Waterloo’s Global Business and Digital Arts program features internships, classroom learning, study-abroad opportunities, and more.
What will you learn?
During your first year, you'll take foundational courses in Global Business and Digital Arts (GBDA) as well as Computer Science and Economics. Plus, you'll have electives to explore additional interests.
Learn about courses you'll take for your degree.

Get tips from Waterloo students
Join our newsletter for tips such as choosing a program, life at Waterloo, and finances.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Contact a student ambassador
Ask a Faculty of Arts student about their program, classes, getting involved on campus, and more!
Questions?Contact an Arts student
 

What can you do with a degree in Global Business and Digital Arts?

While each student's choice of courses and careers will be unique, these are common areas where graduates work.

Social media management
Digital product development
Project management


User experience designer
Digital marketing
Entrepreneurship

 
Learn about the future of careers in business.


"Professors in GBDA care about each student and really want to see you succeed. There's lots of hands-on work. You'll meet people with different skills which you can embrace and learn from. Be open to learning you'll be surprised by what you discover!"Jessica, fourth-year Global Business and Digital Arts student
Admission requirements
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Any Grade 12 U English (Minimum final grade of 75% is required)
4U Mathematics of Data Management is recommended.
Admission average: Low 80s
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements.
How to apply
Apply directly to this program on your application.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, the program, requirements, careers?
Email our GBDA recruitment and admissions coordinator who can answer any questions you have.

 
Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochure 