
Study the biological and social factors that impact health

Focus on preventing illness, not simply treating people once they get sick. At Waterloo, you’ll learn how to promote health, improve health care systems, and bring together the science and the social aspects of health. By the time you graduate, you'll have a well-rounded understanding of the different factors that impact human health – beyond just biology.
Whether you opt for the regular or co-op stream, Health Sciences gives you the skills for improving human health, along with lots of room for electives. And with lots of minors and specializations such as pre-clinical, neuroscience, and health informatics to choose from, you can tailor your studies to your specific areas of interest.
You’ll graduate with the skills to tackle global health pandemics such as COVID-19, transform public health policy, and pave the way for new medical breakthroughs.
Program highlights
Accredited by the Council on Education for Public Health. This rigorous external review of our program's quality and graduate career success recognizes our commitment to ensuring what you learn in class is relevant and up to date.
Biological AND social science. Take some core science courses (think biology, chemistry, and physiology) and learn about the societal factors that impact human health (like health policy and social/economic factors).
Lots of career options. This program can prepare you for medical school – and it can also open many other career pathways like policy analysis, occupational therapy, genetic counselling, research, and more!
Available as a regular or co-op program
Graduate with a Bachelor of Science degree in Health Sciences
Offered by the Faculty of Health

Discover if Health Sciences is right for you.


View our digital program brochure 
 
Watch video on YouTube
What will you learn?

First-year courses
You'll take a mix of courses from the Faculty of Health and the Faculty of Science to give you the foundations for your upper-year classes.
After first year, about half your classes will be Health courses.
Learn more about courses you'll take for your Health Sciences degree.


Customize your degree
You can add additional areas of expertise to your degree by including one or more of these areas of focus.
Addictions, Mental Health, and Policy
Aging Studies option
Gerontology
Health Informatics
Health Research
Pre-Clinical Specialization
You can also include one of the minors available to all Waterloo students. Popular areas of focus include Gerontology, Psychology, Human Nutrition, Pre-clinical, Neuroscience, and Health Research.

 

Get tips from Waterloo students
Sign up for insider advice that can help you now and in the future.
Monthly topics include how to choose a university program, tips for a successful senior year of high school, and more.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Questions? Ask a student!
Connect with a current student ambassador to learn about their experience in the program.
Ask them questions such as why they chose their program, what the classes are like, and how you can get involved on campus.
Questions?Contact a Health student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve.

Sample co-op job titles
Genetic counselling assistant
Healthy women project coordinator
Health promotion assistant
Patient flow facilitator
Clinical research assistant
Health and safety specialist

 
 
		 

		 

How to choose: co-op or regular?Take our quiz! 
 
 



What can you do with a degree in Health Sciences?

Your degree lays the foundation for a career in health professions such as medicine, clinical research, epidemiology, and occupational health. Or, go on to pursue an accelerated master’s degree in our School of Public Health Sciences.
Sample careers
Family Physician - London Lambeth Medical Clinic
Health Promotion Specialist - Region of Peel
Tobacco Cessation Specialist - Canadian Cancer Society
Epidemiologist - University Health Network
Clinical Research Coordinator - The Centre for Dermatology
Policy Analyst - Employment & Social Development Canada
Speech Language Pathologist - Peel District School Board
Learn about the future of careers in health and helping professions.
Read profiles and view videos about the path Health Sciences graduates took to pursue their career.
Further education
While the full range of further education depends on your individual interests, these are common areas where graduates pursued a master's, PhD, or other professional program.

Medicine
Nursing
Pharmacy
Speech language pathology


Law
Epidemiology
Public health
Health informatics

 
Considering med school? Learn how you can get into medical school.



Common questions about the Health Sciences program

How is Waterloo’s Health Sciences program different from similar programs at other universities?
In addition to learning how to treat disease, Waterloo’s Health Sciences program also focuses on disease prevention, enabling you to develop effective approaches that keep people healthy. You’ll learn to take a systems approach to disease prevention and treatment, so you can understand how to influence the many factors that affect health. As a graduate, you’ll be well-prepared for the health-care careers of the future because you’ll be exposed to subjects that will grow increasingly important over the next decade, such as leveraging information technology, understanding the aging population, mental health, and more.
With many small class opportunities like labs and tutorials, over 40 health-related courses to choose from, and experiential learning opportunities like co-op and our EDGE certificate program, you’ll have a distinct advantage when entering the workforce or applying to further studies.
What is the difference between Health Sciences and Biomedical Sciences?
Both Health Sciences and Biomedical Sciences are extremely flexible and can help you achieve your goals in health care and medical professions, such as obtaining a medical degree. Both offer foundational science courses in first year, such as cell biology, chemistry, and human physiology. Both offer a Bachelor of Science degree.
The difference is most noticeable after first year. Health Sciences courses combine topics like life sciences, social sciences, and research and apply those concepts to important health care subjects such as epidemiology and health informatics. Biomedical Sciences focuses on more traditional medical-based science, such as organic chemistry and molecular biology. Biomedical Sciences offers more opportunities to get into lab facilities while Health Sciences offers paid experience through our co-op program. Both will give you hands-on experience and access to award-winning instructors, so regardless of which you choose, you’ll be well prepared for your future career in health care.
Does this program meet the prerequisites for medical school and the Medical College Admission Test (MCAT)?
This is a popular option if you plan to pursue medicine. If you’re interested in a future clinical health profession, you should consult the requirements of the schools you want to attend. Between your required and elective courses in the program, you’ll be able to meet the requirements for most medical schools in Canada and around the world. Read our tips on how to get into medical school.
What is the difference between life sciences and health sciences?
In general, a health sciences degree program, such as Health Sciences, focuses on human health whereas a life sciences degree focuses on all living things. Learn more about our health sciences and life sciences programs.
Is this program available online?
No. While you may be able to take some courses online, most courses required for the degree are available through in-person classes only.
How long does it take to complete this program?
It takes four years to complete this program as a full-time student through the regular system of study. You’ll take courses between September and April each year and have your summers off. You can also choose the co-op system of study where you’ll alternate between four-month school terms and four-month terms in full-time jobs relating to the program. A co-op program takes five years to complete – and you’ll graduate with 20 months of paid work experience.


"This program taught me how to look beyond the individual and examine the broader forces and structures in our society that impact human health. It's a perspective that helps me to be more understanding of my patients and has made me a better doctor."Brendan, Health Sciences graduate"My favourite part of the program is the variety of disciplines and subject areas. I've learned about health from a biological, social science, ecological, and public health lens, really opening my eyes to the opportunities available in this field!"Christina, fourth-year student (minor in Gerontology)"Being in co-op, I've learned so much about careers in health and what I value when looking for a job. But most important, my confidence in interviewing for a job and performing well in the workplace has increased so much over my work terms."Anna, third-year student"The best part about being a Waterloo student is having diverse opportunities to customize my degree. Through countless clubs and student societies, you can find your niche and community, which is incredibly supportive and open to helping other students!"Xenia, fourth-year student (minor in Psychology)
Admission requirements
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Any Grade 12 U English (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Any Grade 12 U Mathematics (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Biology (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Chemistry (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Admission averages: Regular:  Mid-80s | Co-op: High 80s
Advanced Functions and Physics are recommended if you're interested in the Pre-Clinical specialization.
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements.
How to apply
Apply directly to this program on your application.
Want to be considered for both the co-op and regular systems of study?
We recommend that you apply to both streams. With the number of applications we receive for the regular system of study, we can't guarantee that if you're not admitted to the co-op program that you'll be considered for the regular option.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, or careers?
Please contact Clare Stevens, our Faculty of Health recruitment co-ordinator who can answer any questions you have.


 

Not sure which Health program is right for you?


Find your program in the Faculty of HealthTake our quizzes!
 
Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochureRelated programs
Biomedical Sciences
Kinesiology
Public Health
Therapeutic Recreation
 