
Craft your own Bachelor of Science degree 

With so many different sciences to love, why limit yourself? Honours Science at Waterloo lets you keep your interests broad.
Take a range of courses in chemistry, biology, physics, earth sciences, and more in the most flexible program within the Faculty of Science. Because you don’t have to commit to a specific discipline, more than half of your Science courses are electives. In addition, you also have space to take courses from other faculties or departments across the university.
An Honours Science degree is an excellent foundation for many science-related careers. It also makes it easy to meet the requirements for professional programs such as medicine, dentistry, optometry, and more.
Program highlights
Choose your own courses. In Waterloo’s most flexible science program, you get to customize your degree based on your interests in science and other areas of study.
Excellent preparation for health professions. Honours Science is a recommended major for preparing for our Pharmacy and Optometry programs.
Offered through the regular system of study
Graduate with a Bachelor of Science in Honours Science
Offered by the Faculty of Science
Discover Science at Waterloo
Watch video on YouTube
What will you learn?

First-year courses
In your first year, you'll take a mixture of Faculty of Science and Mathematics courses to give you the foundations for your upper-year classes. After first year, most of your classes will be courses in the Faculty of Science.
Learn more about courses you'll take for your Honours Science degree.


Customize your Honours Science degree
You can add additional areas of expertise to your degree by including one or more of the minors available to all Waterloo students, or our Bioinformatics Option.
In fact, most of our Honours Science graduates complete their program with at least one minor, often two. Popular areas of focus include biology, psychology, and chemistry.

 


Get tips from Waterloo students
Sign up for insider advice that can help you now and in the future.
Monthly topics include how to choose a university program, what it's like to be a Waterloo student, and more.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Questions? Ask a student!
Contact a Science student ambassador to learn about their experience.
Ask them questions such as why they chose their program, what the classes are like, and how you can get involved on campus.
Questions?Contact a Science student




What can I do with a degree in Honours Science?

With its flexible course selection, Honours Science leads to a wide variety of careers in health care and research, education, energy and oil, pharmaceuticals, environmental science and research, insurance, agriculture and food, and natural resources.
Sample graduates
Teacher - Halton District School Board
Cardiac Ethnographer - University Health Network
Coordinator Forests Without Borders - The Canadian Ecology Centre
Environment, Health & Safety Advisor - Suncor Energy Products Inc.
Food Processing Specialist - Maple Leaf Consumer Foods
Industrial Hygienist - Petro-Canada
Lab Technologist - Stratford General Hospital
Learn about the future of careers in science.


"The best thing about Waterloo is the high-quality education. Every class I've taken has been amazing. The professors are passionate about their fields and helping students. My peers are curious and driven, which has encouraged me to do my best and grow."Lindsay, Honours Science student (minors in Biology, Chemistry, and Psychology)"Honours Science really allows you to personalize your own degree and work at your own pace. It’s so flexible you can take anything – from mythology to languages – while you gain skills and knowledge in the sciences you love."Maggie, Honours Science student
Honours Science admission requirements
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
English (ENG4U) (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Advanced Functions (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Calculus and Vectors (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Two of Biology, Chemistry, Earth and Space Science, Mathematics of Data Management, and Physics
Admission averages: Low 80s
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements.
How to apply?
Apply directly to this program on your application.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, or careers?
Please contact Alisia, our Science recruitment coordinator who can answer any questions you have.


 
Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochureRelated programs
Life Sciences
Physical Sciences
Science and Business
Kinesiology
 