
 Pursue your passions. Postpone the commitment.

The flexibility of Waterloo's Honours Arts program – along with a first-year course in public speaking and a love for Lord of the Rings – led Stavros to a double major in Communication Studies and Medieval Studies.
If you have a wide variety of interests, Honours Arts gives you the freedom to explore them.
In Waterloo's largest and most flexible first-year program, you’ll use your first two terms to test the waters. Sample courses from the humanities, social sciences, fine and performing arts, and languages and cultures. Discover subjects you weren’t exposed to in high school, or delve deeper into your favourite subject at the university level.
Whatever direction you end up taking, Honours Arts will give you the critical thinking skills to analyze issues, make persuasive arguments, write well, and speak with conviction — skills that will serve you well along any career path.
You can also co-register and complete your Waterloo degree through St. Jerome's University or Renison University College, smaller academic communities located on campus.
Program highlights
Choose from 30 majors. At the end of first year, it’s your choice. Pick one (or two!) of 30 different Arts majors. And then you can easily combine majors and minors to customize your degree to your interests.
Use paid co-op work terms to explore potential career areas, gain valuable work experience, and earn money to help pay for school.
Room for extracurriculars. Honours Arts gives you plenty of time outside the classroom to join clubs, run for student government, study abroad, volunteer, or explore other interests.


Available as a regular or co-op program
Available through full-time, part-time, and online studies
Graduate with a Bachelor of Arts
Offered by the Faculty of Arts
30 majors to choose from

Anthropology
Classical Studies (2 majors)
Communication Studies (2 majors)
Economics
English (4 majors)
Fine Arts (2 majors)
French
Gender and Social Justice
German
History
Legal Studies
Liberal Studies
Medieval Studies


Music
Peace and Conflict Studies
Philosophy
Political Science
Psychology
Religious Studies
Sexuality, Marriage and Family Studies
Social Development Studies
Sociology
Spanish
Theatre and Performance

 
You'll choose your major at the end of first year. 

Get tips from Waterloo students
Join our newsletter for tips such as choosing a program, life at Waterloo, and finances.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Questions? Ask a student!
Ask a Faculty of Arts student about their program, classes, getting involved on campus, and more!
Questions?Contact an Arts student
 

What can you do with an Honours Arts degree?

The flexibility of Honours Arts and the choice of 30 majors provides an incredible range of possible careers to pursue. Sample careers of our graduates include

Manager, Human Relations - Microsoft Canada
Lawyer - Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP
Copy Editor and Designer - Booker Publishing
Account Executive, Higher Education - Apple Canada


Teacher - Upper Grand District School Board
Marketing Officer - Statistics Canada
Recreation Therapist - YMCA
Protection Support Worker - Children's Aid Society

 
Learn about the future of careers in arts, humanities, social sciences, languages, and creative arts.



Co-op = relevant paid work experience

In our co-op program, you'll normally alternate between four-month school terms and four-month paid work terms throughout your degree. With thousands of employers hiring Waterloo co-op students each year, you can explore careers by applying to jobs related to your major. It's a great way to get relevant experience, make connections with potential future employers, and identify careers you might like to pursue.
Co-op is also available with any of our majors!



What's the difference between Honours Arts and Honours Arts and Business?

Most of the requirements are similar, however, Honours Arts and Business requires 14 business courses, which means less time for electives. Watch this video for more details on both programs.
Watch video on YouTube


Common questions about the program

Can I change my major after I apply? Can I do a double major? 
When you apply to Waterloo, you'll indicate a major that you'd like to pursue. (A major is the subject you'd like to be the focus of your degree.) You’re not committed to this major – and you don’t need to solidify the major(s) you want to explore in first year until June, which is when you'll select courses for the term starting in September. You’ll begin your major in first year even though you don’t officially choose it until the end of first year. We recommend that you explore two majors in first year to keep your options open.
			 
			You can definitely do a double major as an Honours Arts student. You could also do a minor. Not sure what a major or minor are? Check out our guide to university terminology. Advisors in the Faculty of Arts will be able to help you with choosing courses and potential majors. 
Can I switch to co-op if I change my mind?
If you’re even slightly interested in including co-op work terms as part of your degree, you should apply to co-op when you apply to Waterloo. You’ll automatically be considered for the regular system of study if you aren’t accepted for co-op, but the admission ranges are often very similar between the two systems of study. If you’re in good academic standing it is possible to switch into co-op later in your studies, but it's not guaranteed as decisions are based on how many spaces are available in co-op and how far through your degree you are. 



Admission requirements
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Any Grade 12 U English (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Grade 12 Calculus and Vectors is recommended if you plan to major in Economics.
Grade 12 Mathematics of Data Management is recommended if you plan to major in Political Science; Psychology; Sexuality, Marriage, and Family Studies; Social Development Studies; or Sociology.
Admission average: Low 80s
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements.
How to apply
Apply directly to this program on your application.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, careers?
Please contact our Faculty of Arts recruitment team who can answer any questions you have.

 
Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochureRelated program
Honours Arts and Business
 