
Follow your passion for Arts — and be business savvy, too

Through the Honours Arts and Business Living Learning Community, you can live with other first-year students in your program; get to know upper-year students, professors, and alumni; and participate in special academic events.
Honours Arts and Business is where the things you’re passionate about intersect with business. Pick one of 30 majors — a subject you’re curious about or something you’ve always loved — then layer on business classes that teach you the practical skills employers look for.
Want your degree to be even more customized? Add on a second honours major or a minor. Choose the regular system of study and finish in four years, or add 20 months of serious work experience to your résumé through co-op. You’ve even got the option of studying abroad.
You can co-register and complete your Waterloo degree through St. Jerome's University or Renison University College, smaller academic communities located on campus.
Program highlights
30 majors to choose from. Pick one of 30 majors in humanities, social sciences, languages, and fine or performing arts. Then round out your degree with courses in other subjects that spark your interest.
14 business courses. Through your business courses, you'll gain an in-depth understanding of accounting, management, economics, marketing, entrepreneurship, ethics, and communication.


Available as a regular or co-op program
Include minors and options as part of your degree
Graduate with a Bachelor of Arts
Offered by the Faculty of Arts
30 majors to choose from

Anthropology
Classical Studies (2 majors)
Communication Studies (2 majors)
Economics
English (4 majors)
Fine Arts (2 majors)
French
Gender and Social Justice
German
History
Legal Studies
Liberal Studies
Medieval Studies


Music
Peace and Conflict Studies
Philosophy
Political Science
Psychology
Religious Studies
Sexuality, Marriage and Family Studies
Social Development Studies
Sociology
Spanish
Theatre and Performance

 
What will you learn? 

First-year courses
During your first year, you'll take four introductory business courses. Plus, you'll have electives to explore two majors of your choosing. In upper years, 40% of the classes you'll take will be in your chosen major while 30% will be in business.
Learn about courses you'll take for your Arts and Business degree.


Customize your degree
You can also add additional areas of interest and expertise by including a minor (or minors) as part of your Bachelor of Arts degree.

 

Get tips from Waterloo students
Join our newsletter for tips such as choosing a program, life at Waterloo, and finances.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Contact a student ambassador
Ask a Faculty of Arts student about their program, classes, getting involved on campus, and more!
Questions?Contact an Arts student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

In our co-op program, you'll normally alternate between four-month school terms and four-month paid work terms throughout your degree. With thousands of employers hiring Waterloo co-op students each year, you can explore careers by applying to jobs related to your major.

Sample co-op job titles
Legal Office Assistant
Entrepreneurship Programmer, Trainer, and Coordinator
Junior Marketing Writer/Proofreader
Human Resources Trainee
Marketing Communications Associate

 
 



What can you do with a degree in Honours Arts and Business?

With expertise in both business and your major, you'll have the skills and knowledge needed for a career in an incredible range of areas such as business, government, marketing, project management, communications, law, human resources, public relations, and more.
Recent graduates
Donor & Member Relations Coordinator - Toronto International Film Festival
HR Coordinator - PepsiCo Canada
Economist - Ontario Ministry of Finance
Business Communications Manager - BlackBerry
Team Lead - BMO Money Market Operations
Learn about the future of careers in business.



What's the difference between Honours Arts and Business and Honours Arts?

Most of the requirements are similar, however, Honours Arts and Business requires 14 business courses, which means less time for electives, but a strong business foundation. Watch this video for more details on both programs.
Watch video on YouTube


Common questions about the program

Can I change my major after I apply? Can I do a double major? 
When you apply to Waterloo, you'll indicate a major that you'd like to pursue. (A major is the subject you'd like to be the focus of your degree.) You’re not committed to this major – and you don’t need to confirm the major(s) you want to explore in first year until June, which is when you'll select courses for the term starting in September. You’ll begin your major in first year even though you don’t officially choose it until the end of first year. We recommend that you explore two majors in first year to keep your options open. 
As an Honours Arts and Business student, you can do a major and minor (you can do a double major if you want to take more than the 40 required courses for your degree). Not sure what a major or minor are? Check out our guide to university terminology. Advisors in the Faculty of Arts will be able to help you with choosing courses and potential majors. 
Can I switch to co-op if I change my mind? 
If you’re even slightly interested in including co-op work terms as part of your degree, you should apply to co-op when you apply to Waterloo. You’ll automatically be considered for the regular system of study if you aren’t accepted for co-op, but the admission ranges are often very similar between the two systems of study. If you’re in good academic standing it is possible to switch into co-op later in your studies, but it's not guaranteed as decisions are based on how many spaces are available in co-op and how far through your degree you are. 



Admission requirements
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
any Grade 12 U English (final grade of at least 70% is required)
Admission average: Low 80s (co-op and regular)
Recommended courses
Mathematics of Data Management is recommended if you're interested in majoring in Anthropology; Economics; Psychology; Political Science; Sexuality, Marriage and Family Studies; Social Development Studies; or Sociology.
If you plan to major in Economics, Calculus and Vectors is also recommended, however you can choose to take a first-year calculus course to acquire additional background.
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, careers?
Please contact our Faculty of Arts recruitment team who can answer any questions you have.

 
Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochureRelated programs
Honours Arts
Recreation and Sport Business
 