
Talk tech and business to bring two worlds together
Businesses can’t operate without information technology, but few business leaders understand the nuts and bolts of their IT systems. In this program, you’ll bridge the gap between the CEO and the IT desk.
You'll learn about systems analysis, databases, e-business, networks, and management information systems, along with marketing, project management, and business statistics.
Graduate with a Bachelor of Mathematics degree and get the skills to work as a business or technical consultant, systems analyst, database administrator, or web programmer. If you take co-op, you'll have experience to complement that as well.
Program highlights
Your choice: four years or five. Gain 24 months of paid work experience through our co-op program, the largest of its kind in North America, or fast-track your degree by choosing the regular system of study.
Compete for glory. Put your programming skills to the test in international collegiate programming contests. Waterloo students regularly triumph locally, regionally, and often globally!
Available as a regular or co-op program
Graduate with a Bachelor of Mathematics in Information Technology Management
Offered by the Faculty of Mathematics

What will you learn?

First-year courses
You'll take a mix of Computer Science and Mathematics courses to give you the foundations for your upper-year classes, along with a few electives.
Learn about courses you'll take for your Information Technology Management degree.


Customize your degree
You can add additional areas of expertise by including one of the minors available to all Waterloo students.
Once you're a student, advisors can help you explore which minors or specializations may fit into your plans.

 

Get tips from Waterloo students
Sign up for insider advice that can help you now and in the future.
Monthly topics include how to choose a program, what it's like to be a Waterloo student, the differences between high school and university, and more.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Questions? Ask a student!
Contact a Faculty of Mathematics student ambassador to learn about their experience in the program.
Ask them questions such as why they chose their program, what the classes are like, and how you can get involved on campus.
Questions?Contact a Math student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve.

Sample co-op job titles
Marketing co-op student
Business systems analyst
IT solutions analyst
Front-end software developer
Project manager intern
Software developer
Web developer

 
 



What can you do with a degree in Information Technology Management?

Waterloo Information Technology Management graduates often pursue careers in systems analysis, web development, and more. They often work in financial institutions and large companies.
Recent graduates
Business Systems Analyst – Manulife Financial
Intermediate Staff Accountant – BDO Dunwoody
Management Consultant – KPMG Environmental Services
Business Systems Analyst – RBC Financial Group
Senior Analyst – Loblaw Companies
Operations Manager, Breakthrough Innovation Lab – Gamico
Associate Product Manager – Veeva Systems
Learn about the future of careers in business.



Student life, including women in mathematics


Math Society (MathSoc)
MathSoc is run by students for students and provides a wide range of clubs and services as well as social and academic events to make your experience as a Waterloo Mathematics student the best it can be. There are many ways to get involved and to meet students in other Faculty of Mathematics programs.


Campus-wide activities
Outside of the Faculty of Mathematics, our campus is packed with opportunities to get involved, no matter how unique your interests. Between clubs supported by the Waterloo Undergraduate Student Association, sports and recreation, student government, and an incredible range of events, there's something for everyone at Waterloo!



Women in Mathematics
The Women in Mathematics (WiM) community encourages and advocates for women of all ages who are interested in studying math and pursuing a career in a related area. WiM strives for all genders to be well-represented in mathematics and welcomes people with under-represented gender identities.


Women in Computer Science
Women in Computer Science (WiCS) promotes gender equity for students interested in studying computer science and pursuing career in computing. WiCS has a very active student-run committee and offers events such as the Big CSters mentoring program, workshops, a speaker series, and panels about diversity in computer science and STEM.

 

There's also Women in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (WiSTEM), a student-run club that welcomes all students (regardless of gender) to promote equality in STEM. Opportunities include skills workshops, discussions, homework help, and guest speakers.



Admission requirements
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Advanced Functions
Calculus and Vectors
Any Grade 12 U English
One other 4U course
Grade 11 Introduction to Computer Science is recommended
Admission averages: Individual selection from the high 80s
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements. 
How to apply?
Apply to Mathematics/Business Administration and choose Information Technology Management as your major at the end of first year. Once you've applied, you'll need to complete the Admission Information Form as part of the application process.
We strongly encourage you to participate in the Canadian Senior Mathematics Contest and/or the Euclid Mathematics Contest to enhance your admissions status. 
To be considered for entrance scholarships in the Faculty of Mathematics, you must write one or both of the contests. If you complete both contests, we'll use the results of the contest in which you performed best.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, or careers?
Please contact our Faculty of Mathematics recruitment coordinator who can answer any questions you have.

Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochure 