
More than an arts and science degree

If you're looking for a rigorous program that provides the flexibility to combine your many interests, Knowledge Integration (KI) may be the perfect fit.
More customizable than a typical arts and science program, Knowledge Integration is built to be flexible. You can explore and specialize in your many diverse interests while gaining the key skills you’ll need for a fulfilling career in almost any industry.
At its core, KI is a skills-based program that prepares you for a changing workforce facing global challenges like climate change, healthcare, cybersecurity, inequity, hunger, and other impacts that bring together experts from different fields. These interdisciplinary problems require skills such as understanding and solving problems, communicating effectively, thinking critically, and collaborating within teams – all of which are the backbone of the KI program.
You'll develop these skills while specializing in arts, science, technology, environmental issues, design-thinking, psychology, business, or any other topic you find interesting. KI’s close community provides a supportive environment to learn how to integrate knowledge from different disciplines and offer creative novel solutions to real-world problems. Through hands-on projects and group work, you’ll learn side by side with curious and attentive peers who want to make a difference in a rapidly changing world.
Program highlights
Specialize in your many interests. Customize your degree by choosing from 120+ areas of specialization. With more electives than any other program at Waterloo, you can pick from over 300 courses across 60 departments.
Get 16+ months of experiential learning opportunities. In your upper years, you’ll travel abroad, build an interactive exhibit in small groups, and design your own independent project fueled by your passions and skills.
Offered through the regular system of study, with the option to do KI Works
Available as a major and minor
Graduate with a Bachelor of Knowledge Integration (BKI)
Offered by the Faculty of Environment
The Knowledge Integration experience
Watch video on YouTube
What will you learn?

First-year courses
In first year, you'll take courses in creative problem-solving, collaboration, public speaking, and critical thinking in addition to courses specific to your interests.
In upper years, you’ll collaborate with your KI classmates on real-world projects; deepen your skills in research, communication, and decision-making; and use your electives to explore or specialize in your passions.
Learn more about the courses you'll take for your Knowledge Integration degree.


Customize your degree
Include one or more of the minors available to all Waterloo students or choose to complete a joint major (sometimes referred to as a double major).
You can add additional areas of expertise to your degree by including one or both of the specializations within Knowledge Integration.
Collaborative Design
Science, Technology, and Society

 

Get tips from Waterloo students
Join our monthly newsletter for tips such as choosing a university program, life at Waterloo, and finances.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Questions? Ask a student!
Ask a Faculty of Environment student about their program, classes, getting involved on campus, and more!
Questions?Contact an Environment student
 
What can you do with a degree in Knowledge Integration?
Graduates pursue a broad range of careers depending on what they choose to explore and specialize in. As a result, Knowledge Integration graduates work in financial institutions, consulting firms, law firms, hospitals, research centres, non-profits, high schools, and much more. They are well suited for dynamic work that allows them to think on their feet, problem solve, manage projects, think critically, and work with others. Many also further their education through medical school, law school, teacher's college, and other graduate studies.
Read about what some of our KI graduates are doing.
Sample graduates
Director of Policy, Government of Ontario
UI/UX designer – Descartes Systems Group
Senior consultant, Deloitte
Lawyer – Ontario Ministry of the Attorney General
Program Manager – Lumos Clean Energy Advisors
Senior design researcher – RBC Royal Bank
Professor, York University
Events & Partnerships Officer – Southlake Foundation
Data scientist, Shopify
ESL Teacher – College de Montreal
Further education
While the full range of further education depends on your individual interests, these are common areas that our graduates pursue. Learn about the types of graduate studies KI grads choose.
Professional programs: medicine and other health professions, law, business, and teaching
Master's and PhDs: anatomical science, anthropology, biology, digital experience innovation, environment, global innovation design, international relations, mathematics, neuroscience, planning, philosophy, political science, science and technology, speech language pathology, statistics, vision science
College programs: concept art for animation and video games, environmental visual communication, event management, publishing

Admission requirements
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Any Grade 12 U English (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Any Grade 12 U Science (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Any Grade 12 U Mathematics (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Admission average: Low 80s
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements.
How to apply?
Apply directly to this program on your application.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, or careers?
Contact Jaime, our Faculty of Environment recruitment coordinator who can answer any questions you have.


 
Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochure 