
Judge the impact of the legal system (no gavels required)

Law touches virtually every aspect of society. That makes a degree in Legal Studies great preparation for a career in government, business, the non-profit sector, law enforcement, and (of course!) law itself.
At Waterloo, you’ll enjoy small classes led by highly respected researchers, giving you lots of opportunity for discussion, and you'll also have the opportunity to gain work experience through co-op.
Over the course of your Legal Studies undergraduate degree, you’ll explore the impact of law on society, the origins of legal systems, how the Charter of Rights and Freedoms creates change, and issues such as crime, deviance, punishment, and restorative justice.
You’ll graduate with skills in research, problem solving, critical thinking, and communication, along with an in-depth understanding of law and legal systems.
Program highlights
Study law from every angle. Gain a broad perspective on the law by studying political science, history, sociology, philosophy, and peace and conflict studies.
Get serious work experience. Choose the co-op system of study and apply your knowledge in law firms, government offices, business, technology companies, and more.


Available as a regular and co-op program
Available as a major and minor
Graduate with a Bachelor of Arts in Legal Studies
Offered by the Faculty of Arts
What will you learn?

First-year courses
During your first year, you'll take two Legal Studies courses. Plus, you'll have electives to explore an additional major of your choosing. In upper years, 40% of the classes you'll take will be Legal Studies courses.
Learn about courses you'll take for your Legal Studies degree.


Customize your degree
You can add additional areas of expertise by including one or more of the minors available to all Waterloo students.
Popular minors for Legal Studies students include Human Resource Management, Sociology, and Psychology.

 

Get tips from Waterloo students
Join our newsletter for tips such as choosing a program, life at Waterloo, and finances.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Contact a student ambassador
Ask a Faculty of Arts student about their program, classes, getting involved on campus, and more!
Questions?Contact an Arts student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve. 

Sample co-op job titles
Legal assistant
Law clerk
Business analyst
Legal office assistant
Project administrator
Marketing associate

 
 



What can you do with a degree in Legal Studies?

Graduates with a Legal Studies degree often find careers working in law firms, human resources, management, legal departments of companies and businesses, security services, retail, and education to name a variety.
Recent graduates
Legal Administrative Assistant – McCarthy Tetrault
Economist – Ministry of Finance, Ontario
Analyst – Canadian Armed Forces
Human Resource Specialist – Qvella
Business Development Representative – Rothmans 
Project Manager – Manulife Financial
Accommodations Consultant – Prica Global
Learn about the future of careers in arts, humanities, social sciences, languages, and creative arts.
Hear from some recent graduates



Alexandra Horwood (BA '10) talks about how she applies what she learned from the Legal Studies program to real life. Hear about how you can apply your Legal Studies degree.
 


"The best things about my program are the amazing staff and students! Everyone is willing to go above and beyond to help each other excel. Plus, networking events hosted by the Legal Studies Society lets you get a glimpse of the various career options."Berrihan, third-year Legal Studies student
Admissions
Apply to Honours Arts or Honours Arts and Business and choose Legal Studies as your major at the end of first year.
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
any Grade 12 U English (minimum final grade of at least 70%)
Admission average: Low 80s (co-op and regular)
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements for Honours Arts or Honours Arts and Business.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, careers?
Please contact our Faculty of Arts recruitment team who can answer any questions you have.

 
Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochure 