
 Flexibility is the name of the game

One of the joys of being in university is having time to broaden your horizons, discover new interests, and get involved in a range of extracurricular activities. Liberal Studies gives you that freedom.
Commonly called a liberal arts degree at other universities, Liberal Studies allows you to explore many different subjects in the humanities, social sciences, languages and cultures, and fine and performing arts – plus courses you’d like to take from some of Waterloo's other faculties.
You can add focus to your degree with a minor or minors, or keep it completely general. (And if you do fall passionately in love with a subject along the way, you can switch into a major at any point.) An academic advisor can help you plan your degree and choose courses.
You can also enrich your learning through Waterloo’s EDGE (experiential education) certificate or by studying Liberal Studies as part of the Honours Arts and Business degree.
Program highlights
100+ subject areas. With more than 100 different subject areas at Waterloo, you have plenty of choice! (You can even complete your degree entirely online.)
Transfer students welcome. Liberal Studies allows you to complete up to half of your courses in other programs or by transfer credit from past studies.


Available as a regular or co-op program 
Offered as a full-time or part-time and online program
Graduate with a Bachelor of Arts in Liberal Arts
Offered by the Faculty of Arts
What will you learn?

First-year courses
In first year you won't have any required courses for your degree - meaning the classes you'll take will be completely up to you! In upper years, most of the classes you'll take will be offered by the Faculty of Arts.
Learn more about the courses you'll take for your Liberal Studies degree.


Customize your degree
You can also add additional areas of interest and expertise by including a minor (or minors) as part of your degree.

 

Get tips from Waterloo students
Join our newsletter for tips such as choosing a program, life at Waterloo, and finances.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Contact a student ambassador
Ask a Faculty of Arts student about their program, classes, getting involved on campus, and more!
Questions?Contact an Arts student
 

Connect with other students
Hagey Hall (pictured on the right) is one of the newest additions to the Faculty of Arts. This space was created specifically with Arts students in mind. There is plenty of sitting and study spaces available for all students to use.




 

What can you do with a liberal arts degree?

The incredible flexibility of the Liberal Studies program means that your career prospects are limited only by your imagination and how you choose to develop your skills and knowledge while at Waterloo. You can pursue a wide range of advanced degrees – such as law, education, and master's degrees – or launch your career in government, education, finance, insurance, law, business, and more.
Marketing Coordinator – TheAppLabb
Business Development Agent – Allstate Insurance Company of Canada
Workforce Development – Sheridan College
Tax Auditor – Canada Revenue Agency
Junior Accountant – Dunsire Developments Inc
Career Advisor – University of Waterloo
Executive Assistant – Mondelez International
Learn about the future of careers in arts, humanities, social sciences, languages, and creative arts.



Admissions
Apply to Honours Arts or Honour Arts and Business and choose Liberal Studies as your major at the end of first year.
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Any Grade 12 U English (minimum final grade of at least 70%)
Admission average: Low 80s (co-op and regular)
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements for Honours Arts or Honours Arts and Business.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, careers?
Please contact our Faculty of Arts recruitment team who can answer any questions you have.

 
Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochure 