
Optimize the world around you

Optimize operations: cut surgery waiting times, streamline supply chains, or fine-tune airline routes. Build advanced models to draw insights from big data. Manage the launch of new software products.
In Canada's first and only Management Engineering program, you'll learn to analyze how organizations operate and make decisions, and apply engineering skills to increase their efficiency.
Over the course of your degree, you’ll develop expertise in data analytics, information systems, operations and supply chain management, and organizational behaviour. You'll also gain paid work experience through co-op.
By graduation, you’ll have the know-how to design and manage complex systems. And you’ll find no shortage of companies looking for your skills: in software, finance, supply chain management, health care, manufacturing, and more.
Program highlights
Engineer efficiency. Use engineering concepts and data analytics to optimize courier routes, hospital wait times, businesses, and even finance practices.
Integrated skillset. Draw from your knowledge of software development, process improvement, and understanding of organizations to manage the design and evolution of software products in some of the world's largest tech corporations.
Offered as a co-op program
Graduate with a Bachelor of Applied Science in Management Engineering
Offered by the Faculty of Engineering
Why Waterloo Engineering?
Watch video on YouTube
What will you learn?
During your first year, you'll take a mix of Management Engineering, computer programming, math, natural sciences, and communication courses. In upper years, most of your classes will be in Management Engineering.
Learn more about the courses you'll take for your Management Engineering degree.

Get tips from Waterloo students
Join our monthly newsletter for tips such as choosing a university program, life at Waterloo, and finances.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Questions? Ask a student!
Ask a Faculty of Engineering student about their program, classes, getting involved on campus, and more!
Questions?Contact an Engineering student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve.

Sample co-op job titles
Business analyst
Product manager
Data scientist
Supply chain analyst
Business systems analyst
SQL application developer
Full-stack developer
Technical program manager intern

 
 



What can you do with a degree in management engineering?

Graduates often pursue careers in software development, big data analysis, and industrial engineering. They commonly work for research centres, technology companies, and more.
Recent graduates
Product manager – Loblaw Digital
Engineering program manager – Apple
Data analyst – Wayfair
Data scientist – Shopify
Software development engineer – Amazon
Senior manager, digital strategy – RBC Wealth Management
Software developer, lead – Ontario Institute for Cancer Research
Supply chain analyst – Weston Bakeries 
Technical consultant – Bentley Canada
Data & analytics consultant – KPMG
Possible professional designation
Professional Engineer
Learn about the future of careers in business.



Common questions about the program

What is the difference between Management Engineering and a business program? 
In a typical business degree program, you concentrate more on business functions such as accounting, finance, sales, human resources, and marketing and earn credits to qualify for professional designations such as Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) and Chartered Professional Accountant (CPA). 
In contrast, Management Engineering provides more focus and greater depth in engineering design, science, and mathematics and deals with identifying and solving the problems that organizations face when deciding how to make better products and services how to run the business more efficiently and effectively. As a Management Engineering graduate, you’ll be eligible to apply for a professional engineering (PEng) designation. 
Nevertheless, you’ll take a number of courses – required and electives – that may traditionally be found in business programs, covering topics such as economics, finance, organizational behaviour and design, management of technology, and entrepreneurship. 
What is the difference between Management Engineering and Software Engineering? 
Software Engineering applies computer science and engineering to design software systems. You’ll take lots of computer science and computer engineering courses at the interface of digital hardware and software, as well as core software engineering courses on software development. 
In contrast, management engineers design, implement, and manage complex management systems. Increasingly, those management systems are implemented as software and information systems. Therefore, information/software systems design comprises a major theme area in Management Engineering, with a number of courses in computer science, software engineering, and information systems. 
As a Management Engineering student, you’ll learn to solve large real-world problems of businesses and organizations that are implemented in software. As a Software Engineering student, you’ll earn to solve a wide range of software problems including low-level systems programming. 
What is the difference between Management Engineering and Industrial Engineering? 
According to the Institute for Industrial and Systems Engineers, industrial engineers design processes and systems that improve quality and productivity by eliminating waste of time, money, materials, energy, or other commodities. There are some similarities between management and industrial engineering programs, including a significant overlap in the type of courses in the two programs. In fact, management engineering could be considered a contemporary industrial engineering program. 
While the Management Engineering curriculum has a large overlap with many industrial engineering programs at other universities, there are two main differences.
Industrial engineering programs vary in the extent to which they include information/software systems design. Waterloo’s Management Engineering program has a very strong information/software systems component, with perhaps the largest concentration of such courses than most industrial engineering programs in Canada. 
Where industrial engineering has traditionally focused on the application of engineering methods to improve manufacturing and industry-related processes, management engineering broadens that focus to include other domains such as finance, business intelligence, health care, and information management. 
Do I take classes with students from other engineering programs? 
In general, you’ll likely be with the same students for most courses throughout the program. Usually, we’re able to schedule all of the Management Engineering students to be in the same classes. In later years, as you begin to take electives, you’ll likely find yourself in classes with students from other engineering programs. 
What is the ratio of males to females in the program? 
Each cohort of students is different, but females typically make up 40-50% of the students in Management Engineering. The first-year Management Engineering class in 2019 was about 46% female. 



Student life, including Women in Engineering


Student design teams
Have fun and develop hands-on experience through one or more of our 25+ student-led design teams! Design teams include rocketry, concrete canoe, robotics, solar car, submarine racing, autonomous vehicle, Space X Hyperloop, Engineers Without Borders, and more.
You’ll meet people with similar interests and goals, benefit from networking with experts in the engineering profession, and develop some great skills for your résumé.


Women in Engineering
Women in Engineering (WiE) supports female students and engineers while encouraging the next generation of women to pursue careers in engineering.
Any student is also welcome to join Women in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (WiSTEM), a student-run club that promotes equality in STEM through skills workshops, discussions, and guest speakers.

 

Engineering Society (EngSoc)
EngSoc is run by students for students and provides many social and academic events and services to make your experience as a Waterloo Engineering student the best it can be.
Benefit from mentoring for first-year students or get involved and meet other students through an annual conference, semiformal, career fair, charity events, community outreach, and much more!


Campus-wide activities
Our campus is packed with opportunities to get involved – no matter how unique your interests. Between our 250+ student-run clubs, sports and recreation opportunities, student government, and events, student life at Waterloo has something for everyone.

 


"I love the flexibility of this program, it encourages me to explore a variety of subjects which I find freeing and exciting! I absolutely love my classmates and know that I'll remain friends with them for a long time."Prithika, first-year Management Engineering studentManagement Engineering admission requirements

Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Advanced Functions (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Calculus and Vectors (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Chemistry (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Physics (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
English (ENG4U) (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Admission averages: Individual selection from the high 80s


Complete the Admission Information Form once you've applied.
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements.

 
How to apply
Apply directly to this program on your application.
Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochure
Related programs
Software Engineering
Systems Design Engineering


Learn more
Visit our Management Engineering program website
Have questions about Management Engineering? Email a program representative

 
 