
Crunch numbers. Calculate odds. Create career success.

Many of the business industry’s most sought-after positions require the mathematical and risk management skills that this program combines.
The world of finance requires professionals with strong mathematical and analytical skills. You’ll hone them both in this challenging program — one of just a handful across the country recognized by the CFA Institute.
Whether you choose to specialize in Chartered Financial Analyst or Professional Risk Management, you’ll study a mix of mathematics, finance, accounting, and economics — giving you the perfect foundation for a career in banking, investment management, or risk management.
Meanwhile, if you opt for the co-op program, you’ll graduate with two years of paid work experience on your résumé.
Program highlights
Social and academic support. Through the Financial Analysis and Risk Management Students Association (FARMSA), you’ll find the knowledge, tools, and networks you need to thrive within the financial services industry.
Earn a CFA or PRM. Graduate with the knowledge and skills needed to prepare for the Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) exams or to pursue other professional designations, such as Professional Risk Manager (PRM) or Fellow of the Canadian Securities Institute.
Available as a regular or co-op program
Graduate with a Bachelor of Mathematics
Offered by the Faculty of Mathematics
What will you learn?

First-year courses
During your first year, you'll take a mix of foundational courses in Mathematics, Computer Science, and communications.
In your upper years, you'll take courses in statistics, finance, accounting, and business.
Learn more about the courses you'll take for your degree.


Customize your degree
In your third year, you'll be able to choose the Chartered Financial Analyst Specialization or Professional Risk Management Specialization.
Once you're a student, advisors can help you explore which minors or specializations may fit into your plans.

 

Get tips from Waterloo students
Join our monthly newsletter for tips such as choosing a university program, life at Waterloo, and finances.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Contact a student ambassador
Ask a Faculty of Mathematics student about their program, classes, getting involved on campus, and more!
Questions?Contact a Math student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve.

Sample co-op job titles
Information systems assistant
Associate business analyst
Investment performance intern
Junior gaming analyst
Data analyst
Hedging & assets specialist
Trading products quantitative analyst

 
 



What can you do with a degree in financial analysis and risk management?

Our graduates often pursue careers in risk analysis, consulting, business development, and related areas. They often work for insurance companies and financial institutions. 
Recent graduates
Portfolio Management, Evaluator – Foresea Life Insurance Company
Observational Risk Analyst – CIBC
Data Support Analyst – Sustainanalytics
Capital Markets Risk Management Associate – TD Securities
Business Development Planner, Nissan Finance – Nissan Canada
Consultant – Capgemini Canada
Treasury Manager - TD Canada Trust
Learn about the future of careers in business.



Student life, including women in mathematics


Math Society (MathSoc)
MathSoc is run by students for students and provides a wide range of clubs and services as well as social and academic events to make your experience as a Waterloo Mathematics student the best it can be. There are many ways to get involved and to meet students in other Faculty of Mathematics programs.


Campus-wide activities
Outside of the Faculty of Mathematics, our campus is packed with opportunities to get involved, no matter how unique your interests. Between clubs supported by the Waterloo Undergraduate Student Association, sports and recreation, student government, and an incredible range of events, there's something for everyone at Waterloo!



Women in Mathematics
The Women in Mathematics (WiM) community encourages and advocates for women of all ages who are interested in studying math and pursuing a career in a related area. WiM strives for all genders to be well-represented in mathematics and welcomes people with under-represented gender identities.


Women in Computer Science
Women in Computer Science (WiCS) promotes gender equity for students interested in studying computer science and pursuing career in computing. WiCS has a very active student-run committee and offers events such as the Big CSters mentoring program, workshops, a speaker series, and panels about diversity in computer science and STEM.

 

There's also Women in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (WiSTEM), a student-run club that welcomes all students (regardless of gender) to promote equality in STEM. Opportunities include skills workshops, discussions, homework help, and guest speakers.


"I really value the wide range of courses I've taken and skills I've learned. The program is also very flexible, I've been able to study the topics of interest to me and customize my degree to suit the career path I want."Leslie, fourth-year Math/Financial Analysis and Risk Management student"Co-op has been instrumental for me not only to get valuable work experience, but also an unforgettable experience for me to explore different careers and paths!"Erik, fourth-year Math/Financial Analysis and Risk Management student
Admission requirements
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Advanced Functions
Calculus and Vectors
Any Grade 12 U English
One other 4U course
Grade 11 Introduction to Computer Science is recommended
Admission averages: Individual selection from the high 80s
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements.


Once you've applied, you'll need to complete the Admission Information Form as part of the application process.
We strongly encourage you to participate in the Canadian Senior Mathematics Contest and/or the Euclid Mathematics Contest to enhance your admissions status. As well, to be considered for entrance scholarships in the Faculty of Mathematics, you must write one or both of the contests. If you complete both, we'll use your higher grade.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, or careers?
Please contact our Faculty of Mathematics recruitment coordinator who can answer any questions you have.

Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochure 