
Study the very big to the very small. This math is universal.

In Mathematical Physics, you’ll combine theoretical physics with high-level math courses in differential equations, vector calculus, and applied mathematics. You’ll also get plenty of chances to apply that learning with hands-on labs in mechanics, electricity and magnetism, computer programming, optics, and more.
You won’t find a better place to study than Waterloo. Our Faculty of Mathematics is the largest in Canada. Meanwhile, the Department of Physics and Astronomy is one of Canada’s largest and most innovative, and this program comes with a co-op option so students can gain up to two years of paid work experience while pursuing their degree.
Join a program that fosters curious minds to question the smallest particles, the largest forces, and everything in between. Where you'll get the support needed to succeed (and possibly win a Nobel Prize in Physics – like Waterloo professor Donna Strickland).
Whatever door you choose, Waterloo offers the key to open it.
Program highlights
Learn from top researchers. Catch a lecture at the Perimeter Institute for Theoretical Physics, just south of campus, or spend a research term at Waterloo’s Institute for Quantum Computing.
Make friends for life. Plan to live in residence? Live in a Science Living Learning Community and meet other first-year Science students. Form a study group or walk to class together with your new classmates.
Available as a regular or co-op program
Graduate with a Bachelor of Mathematics or a Bachelor of Science in Mathematical Physics
Offered by the Faculties of Mathematics and Science

Study the theoretical side of physics and be well-prepared to embark on a career in research and development or to pursue specialized graduate studies.
What will you learn?

First-year courses
In your first year, you'll take a mixture of Physics, Mathematics, and Computer Science courses to give you the foundations for your upper-year classes. After first year, most of your classes will be Physics and Mathematics courses.
Learn more about courses you'll take for your Mathematical Physics degree.


Customize your degree
You can add additional areas of expertise to your degree by including one or more of the minors available to all Waterloo students.
Once you're a student, advisors can help you explore which minors or specializations may fit into your plans.

 

Get tips from Waterloo students
Sign up for insider advice that can help you now and in the future.
Monthly topics include how to choose a university program, what it's like to be a Waterloo student, and more.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Questions? Ask a student!
Contact a Science student ambassador to learn about their experience.
Ask them questions such as why they chose their program, what the classes are like, and how you can get involved on campus.
Questions?Contact a Science student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve.

Sample co-op job titles
Design engineer-quality assurance
Project engineering support
Performance engineering co-op student
Science & math peer tutor
Undergraduate research assistant
Application programmer
Quality assurance analyst

 
 



What can you do with a degree in Mathematical Physics?

Mathematical Physics graduates commonly pursue careers in industry analysis and modelling, software development and theoretical physics research with nuclear power companies, tech companies, engineering firms, and more. Many graduates also pursue specialized master's and PhD studies.
Recent graduates
Programmer/Research Assistant – Grand River Hospital
Teacher – Nancy Campbell Academy
Specialist – Toyota Motor Manufacturing Canada 
Shopping Operations Specialist – Google 
Lecturer – McGill University
Front End Engineer – Sandvine
Assistant Engineer – General Dynamic Canada
Learn about the future of careers in math, coding, and data.



Common questions about the program

What's the difference between Mathematical Physics in the Faculty of Science and the Faculty of Mathematics?
In first year, students in the Faculty of Science will take more science courses and labs in subjects like chemistry, while students in the Faculty of Mathematics will take more computer science courses. After first year, the programs have very similar requirements and offer the same opportunities, so the biggest difference is whether you prefer to graduate with a Bachelor of Mathematics or a Bachelor of Science. There's no right or wrong degree, it's personal preference.
How do the math courses compare to high school?
The math courses in Mathematical Physics are more focused on proving a theory or problem rather than computing or defining a specific answer. This type of math may be very different than your high school math. You may find the math similar to trigonometric identities problems.



Student life, including women in mathematics


Student societies
Math Society and Science Society are run by students for students and provides a wide range of clubs, services, and social and academic events to make your experience as a Waterloo student the best it can be.


Campus-wide activities
Our campus is packed with opportunities to get involved, no matter how unique your interests. Between clubs supported by the Waterloo Undergraduate Student Association, sports and recreation, and an incredible range of events, there's something for everyone at Waterloo!



Women in Mathematics
The Women in Mathematics (WiM) community encourages and advocates for women of all ages who are interested in studying math and pursuing a career in a related area. WiM strives for all genders to be well-represented in mathematics and welcomes people with under-represented gender identities.


Women in Computer Science
Women in Computer Science (WiCS) promotes gender equity for students interested in studying computer science and pursuing career in computing. WiCS has a very active student-run committee and offers events such as the Big CSters mentoring program, workshops, a speaker series, and panels about diversity in computer science and STEM.

 

There's also Women in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (WiSTEM), a student-run club that welcomes all students (regardless of gender) to promote equality in STEM. Opportunities include skills workshops, discussions, homework help, and guest speakers.


"Between the Institute for Quantum Computing, the nearby Perimeter Institute for Theoretical Physics, and other cool research on campus, Waterloo is a great environment if you're interested in physics!"Eric, fourth-year Mathematical Physics student"My favourite course is Quantum Physics because, just like a different language, it introduces me to a different realm with its own rules and ideas. When those are applied correctly, you achieve a great eloquence."Khurshid, Mathematical Physics (co-op) student

Admissions
Apply to Mathematics or Physical Sciences and choose Mathematical Physics as your major.
Choose your focus
You can earn your Mathematical Physics degree through the Faculty of Mathematics or the Faculty of Science. What's the difference?
While most of your first-year courses will be similar, you'll take more science or math courses in your upper years depending on which entry program you choose.
The degree you earn will be either a Bachelor of Mathematics (BMath) through the Faculty of Mathematics or a Bachelor of Science (BSc) through the Faculty of Science.
Depending on your interests and whether you'd like to earn a math or science degree, you'll apply to one of two entry programs: Mathematics or Physical Sciences (which have different admission requirements).
You'll then choose Mathematical Physics as your major within one of these entry programs.
The courses required to earn your degree will focus more on math or science.
				Bachelor of Mathematics requirements
Bachelor of Science requirements



Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, or careers?
Contact the Math recruitment coordinator or the Science recruitment coordinator, who can answer any questions you have.

 

Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochureRelated programs
Physics
Physics and Astronomy
Applied Mathematics
Pure Mathematics
 