
Really understand the numbers

Annie’s strong background in both mathematics and accounting led her to rewarding accounting co-op positions, where she was able to make valued contributions to her team in the tasks and projects they were given.
In the only accounting program in Canada to lead to a math degree, you’ll gain all the fundamentals of an outstanding accounting education — plus you’ll take a deep dive into mathematics.
You’ll acquire a strong background in the mathematical field of your choice, along with equally focused studies in accounting, economics, and business. It’s the perfect foundation for a career as a chartered accountant or a management accountant.
Put your knowledge to work during four co-op work terms, gaining valuable real-world experience that can be counted toward your CPA designation. You’ll graduate with a unique degree and ready for a high-impact career as a CPA.
Program highlight
A direct route to your career. Once you graduate, spend just eight months completing our Master of Accountancy (MAcc) program and you’ll be ready to write the Common Final Examination.
Offered as a co-op program only
Graduate with a Bachelor of Mathematics in Chartered Professional Accountancy
Offered by the Faculty of Mathematics
What will you learn?

First-year courses
During your first year, you'll take a mix of foundational courses in Math, Accounting and Financial Management, Economics, and Computer Science.
In upper years, you'll take courses in statistics, finance, business, and accounting.
Learn more about the courses you'll take for your Mathematics/Chartered Professional Accountancy degree.


Customize your degree
You can add additional areas of expertise to your degree by including a Data Analytics or Finance specialization.
Once you're a student, advisors can help you explore which minors or specializations may fit into your plans.

 

Get tips from Waterloo students
Join our monthly newsletter for tips such as choosing a university program, life at Waterloo, and finances.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Contact a student ambassador
Ask a Faculty of Mathematics student about their program, classes, getting involved on campus, and more!
Questions?Contact a Math student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and four paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve.

Sample co-op job titles
Student in Accounts
Tax Co-op Associate
Senior Student in Accounts
Business Analyst

 
 



What can you do with a degree in math and accounting?

Mathematics/Chartered Professional Accountancy graduates often pursue careers in accountancy, financial analysis, and consulting. They typically work for insurance companies, financial institutions, auditing companies, and more.
Recent graduates
Accountant – Munich Reinsurance Company of Canada
Banking Analyst – J.P. Morgan
Senior Credit Risk Analyst – CIBC
Internal Auditor – Treasury Board Secretariat
Consulting Analyst – Accenture 
Business Analyst – Deloitte
Quantitative Trader - Northstar Trading
Possible professional designations
Chartered Professional Accountant (CPA)
Learn about the future of careers in business.



Student life, including women in mathematics


Math Society (MathSoc)
MathSoc is run by students for students and provides a wide range of clubs and services as well as social and academic events to make your experience as a Waterloo Mathematics student the best it can be. There are many ways to get involved and to meet students in other Faculty of Mathematics programs.


Campus-wide activities
Outside of the Faculty of Mathematics, our campus is packed with opportunities to get involved, no matter how unique your interests. Between clubs supported by the Waterloo Undergraduate Student Association, sports and recreation, student government, and an incredible range of events, there's something for everyone at Waterloo!



Women in Mathematics
The Women in Mathematics (WiM) community encourages and advocates for women of all ages who are interested in studying math and pursuing a career in a related area. WiM strives for all genders to be well-represented in mathematics and welcomes people with under-represented gender identities.


Women in Computer Science
Women in Computer Science (WiCS) promotes gender equity for students interested in studying computer science and pursuing career in computing. WiCS has a very active student-run committee and offers events such as the Big CSters mentoring program, workshops, a speaker series, and panels about diversity in computer science and STEM.

 

There's also Women in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (WiSTEM), a student-run club that welcomes all students (regardless of gender) to promote equality in STEM. Opportunities include skills workshops, discussions, homework help, and guest speakers.



Admission requirements
Ontario students: six Grade 12U and/or M courses including
Advanced Functions
Calculus and Vectors
Any Grade 12U English
One other 4U course
Recommended courses: Grade 11U Introduction to Computer Science, Grade 12M Principles of Financial Accounting
Admission averages: Individual selection from the high 80s
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements.


Once you've applied, you'll need to complete the Admission Information Form as part of the application process.
We strongly encourage you to participate in the Canadian Senior Mathematics Contest and/or the Euclid Mathematics Contest to enhance your admissions status.
To be considered for entrance scholarships in the Faculty of Mathematics, you must write one or both of the contests. If you complete both contests, we'll use the results of the contest in which you performed best.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, or careers?
Please contact our Faculty of Mathematics recruitment coordinator who can answer any questions you have.

 
Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochureRelated programs
Accounting and Financial Management
Biotechnology/CPA
Computing and Financial Management
Mathematics/Financial Analysis and Risk Management
Sustainability and Financial Management 
 