
 It’s a simple equation: math + business = career success

Use your analytical know-how to solve problems in a rapidly changing technology environment. You’ll earn a Bachelor of Mathematics by taking courses from two prestigious institutions: math courses from Waterloo's Faculty of Mathematics and business courses from the School of Business and Economics at nearby Wilfrid Laurier University.
If you want more advanced quantitative and technical skills than are available through traditional business programs, this program is designed for you.
When you graduate, you’ll have all the skills you need for a career as an analyst, information specialist, trader, or many other options, along with paid work experience if you choose to enrol in the co-op stream.
Program highlights
Two years of work experience. Gain 20 months of paid work experience through our co-op program, the largest of its kind in North America, or fast track your degree by choosing the regular system of study.
Social and academic support. Party with your Pink Tie profs. Test your limits in a 24-hour games marathon. Make professional contacts at speed networking events. Waterloo’s Mathematics Society organizes all kinds of academic and social activities throughout the year.
Available as a regular or co-op program
Graduate with a Bachelor of Mathematics in Mathematics/Business Administration
Offered by the Faculty of Mathematics
What will you learn?

First-year courses
During your first year, you'll take a mix of foundational courses in Mathematics, Computer Science, and communications.
In your upper years, you'll take courses in statistics, finance, and computer science. You'll also explore classes in business and economics.
Learn more about the courses you'll take for your Math/Business Administration degree.


Customize your degree
You can add additional areas of expertise to your degree by including one or more of the minors available to all Waterloo students.
Once you're a student, advisors can help you explore which minors or specializations may fit into your plans.

 

Get tips from Waterloo students
Join our monthly newsletter for tips such as choosing a university program, life at Waterloo, and finances.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Contact a student ambassador
Ask a Faculty of Mathematics student about their program, classes, getting involved on campus, and more!
Questions?Contact a Math student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve.

Sample co-op job titles
Portfolio analyst intern
Business systems analyst
Consultant
Data analyst
Marketing/business development
Project management officer
Software developer
Technical finance analyst

 
 



What can you do with a math and business administration degree?

Waterloo Mathematics/Business Administration graduates often pursue careers in analysis, trading, accountancy, and more. They commonly work for consulting companies, government ministries, and accounting organizations.
Recent graduates
Senior Consultant – Deloitte
Business Analyst – Manulife Financial
Sales Analyst – EF Education First
Revenue Analyst – Challenger Motor Freight 
Government, Risk, and Compliance Solution Specialist – Iceberg Networks
Investor Relations Specialist – Citco 
Investment Analyst – Sun Life Financial 
Read about how Marcelo used his Mathematics degree to build a billion dollar business.
Learn about the future of careers in business.



Student life, including women in mathematics


Math Society (MathSoc)
MathSoc is run by students for students and provides a wide range of clubs and services as well as social and academic events to make your experience as a Waterloo Mathematics student the best it can be. There are many ways to get involved and to meet students in other Faculty of Mathematics programs.


Campus-wide activities
Outside of the Faculty of Mathematics, our campus is packed with opportunities to get involved, no matter how unique your interests. Between clubs supported by the Waterloo Undergraduate Student Association, sports and recreation, student government, and an incredible range of events, there's something for everyone at Waterloo!



Women in Mathematics
The Women in Mathematics (WiM) community encourages and advocates for women of all ages who are interested in studying math and pursuing a career in a related area. WiM strives for all genders to be well-represented in mathematics and welcomes people with under-represented gender identities.


Women in Computer Science
Women in Computer Science (WiCS) promotes gender equity for students interested in studying computer science and pursuing career in computing. WiCS has a very active student-run committee and offers events such as the Big CSters mentoring program, workshops, a speaker series, and panels about diversity in computer science and STEM.

 

There's also Women in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (WiSTEM), a student-run club that welcomes all students (regardless of gender) to promote equality in STEM. Opportunities include skills workshops, discussions, homework help, and guest speakers.



Admission requirements
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Advanced Functions
Calculus and Vectors
Any Grade 12 U English
One other 4U course
Grade 11 Introduction to Computer Science is recommended
Admission averages: Individual selection from the high 80s
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements. 


Once you've applied, you'll need to complete the Admission Information Form as part of the application process.
We strongly encourage you to participate in the Canadian Senior Mathematics Contest and/or the Euclid Mathematics Contest to enhance your admissions status.
To be considered for entrance scholarships in the Faculty of Mathematics, you must write one or both of the contests. If you complete both contests, we'll use the results of the contest in which you performed best.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, or careers?
Please contact our Faculty of Mathematics recruitment coordinator who can answer any questions you have.

Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochureRelated programs
Business Administration (Laurier) and Mathematics (Waterloo) Double Degree
Business Administration (Laurier) and Computer Science (Waterloo) Double Degree
 