
Get a degree that counts

If you love numbers, symbols, and equations, we talk your language. At Waterloo — the world's largest centre for education in mathematics and computer science — we offer more than 500 different math courses.
After first year, you'll focus on one of the majors listed below. Depending on which one you choose, you can gain two years of paid work experience through Waterloo's co-op program, the largest of its kind in North America, or fast track your degree by choosing the regular system of study.
When you graduate, you’ll have all kinds of career options. Mathematics is the foundation of many fields of study, such as commerce, computing, engineering, and science — and essential for asking many fundamental questions about how our world works.
Program highlights
Get international experience. Round out your résumé and broaden your cultural perspective with a term abroad. Earn credits at universities in 18 different countries, or spend a co-op work term with a company overseas.
Social and academic support. The student-run Mathematics Society organizes student/prof mixers, beach outings, and pie-filled Pi Day celebrations on March 14 (get it? 3/14?).
Available as a regular or a co-op program
Available as a major and minor
Graduate with a Bachelor of Mathematics
Offered by the Faculty of Mathematics
Majors
Choose one of 14 majors at the end of first year. 

Actuarial Science
Applied Mathematics
Biostatistics
Combinatorics and Optimization
Computational Mathematics
Data Science
Mathematical Economics


Mathematical Finance
Mathematical Optimization
Mathematical Physics
Mathematical Studies
Pure Mathematics
Statistics
Mathematics/Teaching

 

Get tips from Waterloo students
Join our monthly newsletter for tips such as choosing a university program, life at Waterloo, and finances.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Contact a student ambassador
Ask a Faculty of Mathematics student about their program, classes, getting involved on campus, and more!
Questions?Contact a Math student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve.

Sample co-op job titles
Actuarial analyst
Data scientist
Developer
Instructional support assistant
QA analyst
Research assistant
Software developer
Web developer

 
 



What can you do with a degree in Mathematics?

Waterloo Mathematics graduates often pursue careers in software development, consulting, and more. They typically work in banks, insurance companies, and research companies.
Recent graduates
Software Test Specialist – Magnet Forensics 
Associate, Consulting & Deals – PwC
Software Developer – Latitude Geographics
Internal Auditor – Treasury Board Secretariat
Project Reporting Analyst – Bruce Power 
Programmer Analyst – Hospital for Sick Children
Senior Developer – Shopify Plus
Learn about the future of careers in math, coding, and data.



Student life, including women in mathematics


Math Society (MathSoc)
MathSoc is run by students for students and provides a wide range of clubs and services as well as social and academic events to make your experience as a Waterloo Mathematics student the best it can be. There are many ways to get involved and to meet students in other Faculty of Mathematics programs.


Campus-wide activities
Outside of the Faculty of Mathematics, our campus is packed with opportunities to get involved, no matter how unique your interests.
Between clubs supported by the Waterloo Undergraduate Student Association, sports and recreation, student government, and an incredible range of events, there's something for everyone at Waterloo!



Women in Mathematics
The Women in Mathematics (WiM) community encourages and advocates for women of all ages who are interested in studying math and pursuing a career in a related area.
WiM strives for all genders to be well-represented in mathematics and welcomes people with under-represented gender identities.


Women in Computer Science
Women in Computer Science (WiCS) promotes gender equity for students interested in studying computer science and pursuing career in computing.
WiCS has a very active student-run committee and offers events such as the Big CSters mentoring program, workshops, a speaker series, and panels about diversity in computer science and STEM.

 

There's also Women in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (WiSTEM), a student-run club that welcomes all students (regardless of gender) to promote equality in STEM. Opportunities include skills workshops, discussions, homework help, and guest speakers.
Also, visit our Waterloo News website to read about how Sophie Janszen-Spitmsan found her place as a woman in math.


"The best thing about the program is the overwhelming support for students from teaching assistants and professors. Being in an environment that promotes hard work and learning inspires me to pursue my career goals!"Natalia, Honours Mathematics student
Mathematics admission requirements
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Advanced Functions
Calculus and Vectors
Any 4U English
One other 4U course
Recommended course: Grade 11 U Introduction to Computer Science
Admission averages: Individual selection from the high 80s
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements
Once you've applied, you'll need to complete the Admission Information Form as part of the application process.
We strongly encourage you to participate in the Canadian Senior Mathematics Contest and/or the Euclid Mathematics Contest to enhance your admissions status. To be considered for entrance scholarships in the Faculty of Mathematics, you must write one or both of the contests. If you complete both contests, we'll use the results of the contest in which you performed best.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, or careers?
Please contact our Faculty of Mathematics recruitment coordinator who can answer any questions you have.

Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochure 