
Inspire the next generation.

Start on your path to becoming a math teacher. There’s no better place to hone your skills than Waterloo, where you’ll gain eight months of paid teaching experience before applying to a Bachelor of Education program.
During your academic terms, you can take a wide variety of math courses or choose to focus your studies in a particular area of math. Add a second teachable subject such as biology, business, chemistry, computer science, English, French, music, or physics.
The world needs great math teachers. We’ll set you on that path.
Program highlights
Speed through your B.Ed. With your Math/Teaching degree, earning your Bachelor of Education takes four school terms. Depending on the faculty of education you attend, you could start teaching in September of the year following your graduation from Waterloo.
Offered as a co-op program only
Graduate with a Bachelor of Mathematics in Mathematics/Teaching
Offered by the Faculty of Mathematics
What will you learn?

First-year courses
During your first year, you'll take a mix of foundational Mathematics, Psychology, and Computer Science courses. In upper years, you'll take Mathematics, Computer Sciences, and additional courses in a second teaching subject.
Learn more about the courses you'll take for your Mathematics/Teaching degree.


Customize your degree
You can add additional areas of expertise to your degree by including one of the minors available to all Waterloo students.
Once you're a student, advisors can help you explore which minors or specializations may fit into your plans.

 

Get tips from Waterloo students
Join our monthly newsletter for tips such as choosing a university program, life at Waterloo, and finances.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Contact a student ambassador
Ask a Faculty of Mathematics student about their program, classes, getting involved on campus, and more!
Questions?Contact a Math student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can gain experience in the classroom before you even apply to a Bachelor of Education program. Set yourself apart from other future teachers!

Sample co-op job titles
Student teacher
Computer science tutor
Teaching assistant
Computer science teacher
Instructional support assistant
Math tutor
Teacher intern

 
 



Careers with Mathematics/Teaching

Graduates pursue careers in teaching math and computer science. They work for school boards across Canada and internationally.
Recent graduates
Teacher – Waterloo Region District School Board
Math Teacher – Halton District School Board
Instructor – Ontario Tech University
Information Systems Analyst & Consultant – University of Waterloo
Youth Job Specialist – YMCA
Instructor – Humber College
Learn about the future of careers in math, coding, and data.



Student life, including women in mathematics


Math Society (MathSoc)
MathSoc is run by students for students and provides a wide range of clubs and services as well as social and academic events to make your experience as a Waterloo Mathematics student the best it can be.
There are many ways to get involved and to meet students in other Faculty of Mathematics programs.


Campus-wide activities
Outside of the Faculty of Mathematics, our campus is packed with opportunities to get involved, no matter how unique your interests.
Between clubs supported by the Waterloo Undergraduate Student Association, sports and recreation, student government, and an incredible range of events, there's something for everyone at Waterloo!



Women in Mathematics
The Women in Mathematics (WiM) community encourages and advocates for women of all ages who are interested in studying math and pursuing a career in a related area.
WiM strives for all genders to be well-represented in mathematics and welcomes people with under-represented gender identities.


Women in Computer Science
Women in Computer Science (WiCS) promotes gender equity for students interested in studying computer science and pursuing career in computing.
WiCS has a very active student-run committee and offers events such as the Big CSters mentoring program, workshops, a speaker series, and panels about diversity in computer science and STEM.

 

There's also Women in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (WiSTEM), a student-run club that welcomes all students (regardless of gender) to promote equality in STEM. Opportunities include skills workshops, discussions, homework help, and guest speakers.




Mathematics/Teaching admission requirements

Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Advanced Functions
Calculus and Vectors
Any 4U English
One other 4U course
Recommended course: Grade 11 U Introduction to Computer Science
Admission averages: Individual selection from the high 80s
How to apply?
Apply to Mathematics and choose Mathematics/Teaching as your major at the end of first year. Once you've applied, you'll need to complete the Admission Information Form as part of the application process.
We strongly encourage you to participate in the Canadian Senior Mathematics Contest and/or the Euclid Mathematics Contest to enhance your admissions status.
To be considered for entrance scholarships in the Faculty of Mathematics, you must write one or both of the contests. If you complete both contests, we'll use the results of the contest in which you performed best.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, or careers?
Please contact our Faculty of Mathematics recruitment coordinator who can answer any questions you have.

Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochure 