
 Do the math that underpins economies

Today, economists are turning to sophisticated mathematical models to understand and predict economic behaviour. Meanwhile, the problems that come up in economics have driven many advances in mathematics.
That's why we’ve created this program, which combines expertise from the Faculty of Mathematics and the Department of Economics in the Faculty of Arts.
Over the course of your degree, you’ll become an expert at using differential calculus, differential equations, and mathematical optimization to understand economic behaviour. If you choose the co-op stream, you can add paid work experience on top of that.
You’ll graduate ready for a career with banks, government, or industry, or for a specialized master’s or PhD program.
Program highlights
Your choice: four years or five. Gain 24 months of paid work experience through Waterloo's co-op program, the largest of its kind in Canada, or fast track your degree by choosing the regular system of study.
Have fun with other mathies. Get social! The student-run Mathematics Society organizes student/prof mixers, beach outings, and pie-filled Pi Day celebrations on March 14 at 1:59 pm (get it? 3/14/1:59?).
Available as a regular or co-op program
Graduate with a Bachelor of Mathematics in Mathematical Economics
Offered by the Faculty of Mathematics
What will you learn?

First-year courses
During your first year, you'll take a mix of foundational courses in Mathematics, Economics, and Computer Science.
In upper years, about half of the classes you'll take will be Economics courses, while the other half will be Mathematics courses.
Learn more about the courses you'll take for your Mathematical Economics degree.


Customize your degree
You can also add additional areas of expertise to your degree by including one or more of the minors available to all Waterloo students.
Once you're a student, advisors can help you explore which minors or specializations may fit into your plans.

 

Get tips from Waterloo students
Join our monthly newsletter for tips such as choosing a university program, life at Waterloo, and finances.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Contact a student ambassador
Ask a Faculty of Mathematics student about their program, classes, getting involved on campus, and more!
Questions?Contact a Math student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve. 

Sample co-op job titles
Market research analyst
Software developer
Sports analytics co-op
Business analyst
Broker digital support assistant
Employment metrics analyst

 
 



What can you do with a degree in Mathematical Economics?

Waterloo Mathematical Economics graduates commonly pursue careers in research, financial analysis, and more. They often work in financial institutions and software companies.
Recent graduates
Research Analyst – Sprott 
Marketing Data Specialist – Quarry Integrated Communications
Statistician – Canada Revenue Agency
Data Scientist – Game Hive
Control Analyst – CIBC
Machine Learning Engineer – 4D Virtual World
Learn about the future of careers in business.



Student life, including women in mathematics


Math Society (MathSoc)
MathSoc is run by students for students and provides a wide range of clubs and services as well as social and academic events to make your experience as a Waterloo Mathematics student the best it can be. There are many ways to get involved and to meet students in other Faculty of Mathematics programs.


Campus-wide activities
Outside of the Faculty of Mathematics, our campus is packed with opportunities to get involved, no matter how unique your interests. Between clubs supported by the Waterloo Undergraduate Student Association, sports and recreation, student government, and an incredible range of events, there's something for everyone at Waterloo!



Women in Mathematics
The Women in Mathematics (WiM) community encourages and advocates for women of all ages who are interested in studying math and pursuing a career in a related area. WiM strives for all genders to be well-represented in mathematics and welcomes people with under-represented gender identities.


Women in Computer Science
Women in Computer Science (WiCS) promotes gender equity for students interested in studying computer science and pursuing career in computing. WiCS has a very active student-run committee and offers events such as the Big CSters mentoring program, workshops, a speaker series, and panels about diversity in computer science and STEM.

 

There's also Women in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (WiSTEM), a student-run club that welcomes all students (regardless of gender) to promote equality in STEM. Opportunities include skills workshops, discussions, homework help, and guest speakers.



Mathematical Economics admission requirements
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Advanced Functions
Calculus and Vectors
Any 4U English
One other 4U course
Recommended course: Grade 11 U Introduction to Computer Science
Admission averages: Individual selection from the high 80s
How to apply?
Apply to Mathematics and choose Mathematical Economics as your major. Once you've applied, you'll need to complete the Admission Information Form as part of the application process.
We strongly encourage you to participate in the Canadian Senior Mathematics Contest and/or the Euclid Mathematics Contest to enhance your admissions status.
To be considered for entrance scholarships in the Faculty of Mathematics, you must write one or both of the contests. If you complete both contests, we'll use the results of the contest in which you performed best.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, or careers?
Please contact our Faculty of Mathematics recruitment coordinator who can answer any questions you have.




Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochure
 