
Build the next generation of robots (and cars and wearable tech and…)

Autonomous vehicles, drones, 3D printers, smartphones, satellite systems, and yes, robotics, are all the computer-controlled electromechanical systems that you will learn to design.
In the first program of its kind in Canada, you’ll develop expertise in mechanical engineering, control engineering, electronics, and computer science, pulling together know-how from these different fields to develop sophisticated machines.
During your co-op terms, you’ll have the chance to try out different career paths, earn money to pay for your education, and build a résumé guaranteed to impress potential employers.
Program highlights
A multidisciplinary approach. You’ll combine the powerful elements of machines, electronics, machine learning, and software to develop "intelligent" electromechanical devices and integrated systems.
Access to great tools. Through Waterloo’s WATiMake lab, you’ll have access to laser cutters, 3D printers, injection moulding machines, and other tools to help you with prototypes and design projects.
Offered as a co-op program only
Graduate with a Bachelor of Applied Science in Mechatronics Engineering
Offered by the Faculty of Engineering
Why Waterloo Mechatronics?
Watch video on YouTube
Part of Canada's largest engineering school, the Mechanical and Mechatronics Engineering department at Waterloo is home to nearly 1,600 undergraduates, graduate students, faculty, and staff.
What will you learn? 
During your first year, you'll take a mix of foundational classes in engineering and math. In your upper years, most of your classes will be in Mechatronics Engineering. 
Learn more about the courses you'll take for your Mechatronics Engineering degree.

Get tips from Waterloo students
Join our monthly newsletter for tips such as choosing a university program, life at Waterloo, and finances.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Questions? Ask a student!
Ask a Faculty of Engineering student about their program, classes, getting involved on campus, and more!
Questions?Contact an Engineering student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve.

Sample co-op job titles
Systems software engineering
Robotics software developer
Hardware engineering intern
Mechanical designer-automation
Control systems software design
Instrumental engineering
Product manager
Application developer

 
 



What can you do with a degree in Mechatronics Engineering?

Graduates often pursue careers in product and software design, technology analysis, program coordination, and more. They usually work for technology companies, manufacturers, and telecommunications companies.
Recent graduates
Systems Engineer – ATS Automation Tooling Systems
Telematics Engineer – Hyundai
iPhone Product Design Engineer – Apple 
Firmware Engineer – Fitbit 
Program Manager – Microsoft
Mechanical Engineer – Nikon
Android Partner Engineer – Google 
Possible professional designation
Professional Engineer
Learn about the future of careers in engineering.



Student life, including Women in Engineering


Student design teams
Have fun and develop hands-on experience through one or more of our 25+ student-led design teams! Design teams include rocketry, concrete canoe, robotics, solar car, submarine racing, autonomous vehicle, Space X Hyperloop, Engineers Without Borders, and more.
You’ll meet people with similar interests and goals, benefit from networking with experts in the engineering profession, and develop some great skills for your résumé.


Women in Engineering
Women in Engineering (WiE) supports female students and engineers while encouraging the next generation of women to pursue careers in engineering.
Any student is also welcome to join Women in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (WiSTEM), a student-run club that promotes equality in STEM through skills workshops, discussions, and guest speakers.

 

Engineering Society (EngSoc)
EngSoc is run by students for students and provides many social and academic events and services to make your experience as a Waterloo Engineering student the best it can be.
Benefit from mentoring for first-year students or get involved and meet other students through an annual conference, semiformal, career fair, charity events, community outreach, and much more!


Campus-wide activities
Our campus is packed with opportunities to get involved – no matter how unique your interests. Between our 200+ student-run clubs, sports and recreation opportunities, student government, and events, student life at Waterloo has something for everyone.

 


"During my co-op terms, I've met mentors who have helped me to grow my technical and soft skills and to help me figure out my path. Through clubs such as Women in Engineering, I've met fantastic people who inspire me to be a better version of myself."Andrea, Mechatronics co-op student"I love the hands-on projects and the diverse skill set Mechatronics explores. I’ve learned software and mechanical skills, along with sensor work! Plus during co-op terms, I get to apply my classroom knowledge and work in a variety of companies."Sanjeevani, fourth-year Mechatronics co-op studentAdmission requirements

Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Advanced Functions (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Calculus and Vectors (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Chemistry (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
English (ENG4U) (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Physics (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Admission average: Individual selection from the high 80s to low 90s


Complete the Admission Information Form once you've applied.
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements.

 
How to apply
Apply directly to this program on your application.
Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochure
Related programs
Mechanical Engineering
Environmental Engineering


Learn more
Visit our Mechatronics Engineering program website.

 
 