
Put your career in gear

If you love things that move, this is your program. At Waterloo, you’ll develop the skills you need to design everything from switches to spacecraft.
You’ll get a broad foundation in all aspects of mechanical design: mechanics, power, control, and manufacturing. You’ll also learn to lead large, multidisciplinary teams, solve problems, come up with high-impact innovations, and have the chance to apply it all to real work experiences in co-op.
Where you use those skills is up to you. Mechanical engineers work in all kinds of fields, constantly looking for ways to make machinery faster, lighter, cleaner, and more reliable.
And with two years of career-relevant experience on your résumé by the time you graduate, you’ll definitely impress potential employers.
Program highlights
Endless career possibilities. Graduates from this program work in various industries, including aerospace, automotive, green energy, and oil.
Knowledge is power. Combine technical know-how with knowledge of fluids, power, and energy systems to create new technologies.

Offered as a co-op program only
Graduate with a Bachelor of Applied Science in Mechanical Engineering
Offered by the Faculty of Engineering

Why Waterloo Mechanical Engineering?
Watch video on YouTube
Become a skilled problem solver, leader, and innovator able to create mechanical systems and electro-mechanical designs that impact industries and improve the world.
What will you learn?
During your first year, you'll take a mix of foundational engineering and math courses. In upper years, most of the classes you'll take will be in Mechanical Engineering.
Learn more about the courses you'll take for your Mechanical Engineering degree.

Get tips from Waterloo students
Join our monthly newsletter for tips such as choosing a university program, life at Waterloo, and finances.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Questions? Ask a student!
Ask a Faculty of Engineering student about their program, classes, getting involved on campus, and more!
Questions?Contact an Engineering student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve.

Sample co-op job titles
Assistant design / production engineering
Mechanical designer
Project engineering
Quality assurance
Machine operator
Manufacturing student
Maintenance & Facilities assistant
Product developer

 
 



What can you do with a degree in Mechanical Engineering?

Waterloo graduates often pursue careers in automation, automotive aerospace, and forensics. They commonly work for media companies, technology companies, vehicle manufactures, and more.
Recent graduates
Mechanical Engineer – Apple
Engineer in Training – Shell Canada
Reactor Designer – Candu Energy
Mechanical Engineer – Imperial Oil
Quality Control Engineer - Toyota Motor Manufacturing Canada
Production Engineer – SeedMaster
Senior Hardware Engineer – Teledyne DALSA
Possible professional designation
Professional Engineer
Learn about the future of careers in engineering.



Student life, including Women in Engineering


Student design teams
Have fun and develop hands-on experience through one or more of our 25+ student-led design teams! Design teams include rocketry, concrete canoe, robotics, solar car, submarine racing, autonomous vehicle, Space X Hyperloop, Engineers Without Borders, and more.
You’ll meet people with similar interests and goals, benefit from networking with experts in the engineering profession, and develop some great skills for your résumé.


Women in Engineering
Women in Engineering (WiE) supports female students and engineers while encouraging the next generation of women to pursue careers in engineering.
Any student is also welcome to join Women in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (WiSTEM), a student-run club that promotes equality in STEM through skills workshops, discussions, and guest speakers.

 

Engineering Society (EngSoc)
EngSoc is run by students for students and provides many social and academic events and services to make your experience as a Waterloo Engineering student the best it can be.
Benefit from mentoring for first-year students or get involved and meet other students through an annual conference, semiformal, career fair, charity events, community outreach, and much more!


Campus-wide activities
Our campus is packed with opportunities to get involved – no matter how unique your interests. Between our 200+ student-run clubs, sports and recreation opportunities, student government, and events, student life at Waterloo has something for everyone.

 


"You get to learn to do by doing. There are multiple projects to apply what we learn beyond just practice problems. Co-op is a huge learning opportunity. The four-month terms let you try a variety of industries, allowing me to shape my career path."Delainey, third-year Mechanical Engineering co-op studentAdmission requirements

Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Advanced Functions (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Calculus and Vectors (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Chemistry (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Physics (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
English (ENG4U) (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Admission averages: Individual selection from the high 80s to low 90s


Complete the Admission Information Form once you've applied.
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements.

 
How to apply
Apply directly to this program on your application.
Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochure
Related programs
Environmental Engineering
Mechatronics Engineering


Learn more
Visit our Mechanical Engineering program website.

 
 