
Immerse yourself in the Middle Ages — minus the dysentery 

This interdisciplinary field of study seeks to unite knowledge from different disciplines, explore new areas of study, and revisit neglected topics.
Concentrate on a crucial era in the development of Western civilization.
In Canada’s longest-standing Medieval Studies program, you’ll explore the ideas and events of Europe and the Near East from the fall of the Roman Empire to the beginning of the modern era in 1500 CE.
When you study medieval history, art, philosophy, legal systems, and politics, you’re not just living in the past. This is a field that offers valuable insights into European politics, modern gender norms, the rise and fall of superpowers, the connections between Islam and Christianity, and more, and you'll have the opportunity to implement that into your work early if you choose the co-op stream.
You’ll have lots of opportunity to connect with other students, thanks to small classes and the regular social and academic events organized by the Classical and Medieval Students Society.
Program highlights
Study abroad (in a castle!). Spend several unforgettable weeks at England’s Herstmonceux Castle, taking part in the Summer Field School in British Archeology.
Build an awesome résumé. If you choose the co-op system of study, you’ll graduate with 5 terms of paid work experience on your résumé.
Available as a regular or co-op program
Available as a major and minor
Graduate with a Bachelor of Arts in Medieval Studies
Offered by the Faculty of Arts
What will you learn?

First-year courses
During your first year, you'll take two introductory Medieval Studies courses. Plus, you'll have electives to explore an additional major of your choosing. In upper years, 40% of the classes you'll take will be in this major.
Learn more about courses you'll take for your Medieval Studies degree.


Customize your Medieval Studies degree
You can add additional areas of expertise by including one or more of the minors available to all Waterloo students.
Popular areas of focus for Medieval Studies students include History and Classical Studies.

 

Get tips from Waterloo students
Join our newsletter for tips such as choosing a program, life at Waterloo, and finances.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Contact a student ambassador
Ask a Faculty of Arts student about their program, classes, getting involved on campus, and more!
Questions?Contact an Arts student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve. 

Sample co-op job titles
Communications specialist
Social media and events coordinator
Learning and development intern
Campaign intern
Communications and education coordinator

 
 



What can you do with a degree in Medieval Studies?

Waterloo Medieval Studies graduates typically pursue careers in communications, administration, and as librarians. They commonly work for libraries, municipalities, and more.
Recent graduates
Librarian – PEI Public Library Service
Communications Specialist – Samuel & Son
Librarian – York University
Insurance Underwriting Assistant – Aviva Canada 
Building Service Manager – Kitchener-Waterloo Symphony
Learn about the future of careers in arts, humanities, social sciences, languages, and creative arts.



Admissions
Apply to Honours Arts or Honours Art and Business and choose Medieval Studies as your major at the end of first year.
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Any Grade 12 U English (minimum final grade of at least 70%)
Admission average: Low 80s (co-op and regular)
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements for Honours Arts or Honours Arts and Business.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, careers?
Please contact our Faculty of Arts recruitment team who can answer any questions you have.

 
 
Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochureRelated programs
Classical Studies
History
 