
Finding career success in drug discovery and design

Want to create the life-saving drugs of tomorrow? Earn a chemistry degree with a difference.
As well as covering all the basics of physical, analytical, and organic chemistry, you’ll also take specialized courses like bio-based chemistry and pharmaceutical drug design. Meanwhile, you’ll hone advanced research and lab skills through your choice of 20+ chemistry lab courses and an independent research project in fourth year.
As a Medicinal Chemistry graduate, you’ll be equipped to design, create, and evaluate potential medications, setting the stage for a career with real impact. You'll also qualify for membership in the Canadian Society of Chemistry and the Chemical Institute of Canada.
Program highlights
Get insights from industry. Because our professors collaborate closely with industry, they’ll bring plenty of practical examples to your labs and lecture halls.
Build an awesome résumé. Gain 20 months of valuable co-op work experience in pharmaceutical companies and hospitals — and get paid for it.
Offered as a co-op program only
Graduate with a Bachelor of Science in Medicinal Chemistry
Offered by the Faculty of Science

Labs, such as our Analytical Chemistry Lab, will introduce you to advanced equipment and computer-assisted techniques. Your professors will bring real-world examples of chemistry to the classroom through their research and collaboration with industry.
What will you learn?

First-year courses
In your first year, you'll take a mixture of Chemistry, Biology, Mathematics and Physics courses to give you the foundations for your upper-year classes. After first year, most of your classes will be Chemistry courses.
Learn more about courses you'll take for your Medicinal Chemistry degree.


Customize your degree
You can add additional areas of expertise to your degree by including one of the minors available to all Waterloo students.

 

Get tips from Waterloo students
Sign up for insider advice that can help you now and in the future.
Monthly topics include how to choose a university program, what it's like to be a Waterloo student, and more.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Questions? Ask a student!
Contact a Science student ambassador to learn about their experience.
Ask them questions such as why they chose their program, what the classes are like, and how you can get involved on campus.
Questions?Contact a Science student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve.

Sample co-op job titles
Discovery analyst
Research and development technician
Pharmaceutical R&D
Undergraduate research assistant
Quality control assistant analyst
Science tutor
Pharmacist assistant

 
 



What can you do with a degree in Medicinal Chemistry?

The program focuses on preparing you for drug research-based positions such as working in universities, pharmaceutical companies, and government research labs. One of the great aspects of the program is that it gives you such a broad background in chemistry. You'll be able to work in more general chemistry fields, such as quality control and the oil and gas industry, if you decided that’s a route you wanted to take.
Our graduates often pursue careers in pharmacology, drug discovery and design, organic chemistry, industrial research and development, and experimental research. Many graduates also pursue specialized master's and PhD degrees.
Recent graduates
Analytical Chemist, GlaxoSmithKline Inc.
Applied Research Scientist, MDS Sciex
Chemist, Allelix Biopharmaceuticals
Inorganic Technician, Environmental Enforcement Services



What is the difference between a medicinal chemist and a pharmacist?

Medicinal chemistry is about creating and studying new drug candidates. You'll learn how drugs are made in the lab and how they impact people or animals. A pharmacist prescribes drugs and ensures patient safety.
If you’re interested in becoming a pharmacist, we recommend programs such as Biology, Biomedical Sciences, or Honours Science before applying to the Pharmacy program.


"I really love that my labs provide me with real-world research skills that I’ve already been able to put into practice during my co-op terms. I’ve built confidence in critical thinking, which is crucial in this field."Elin, Medicinal Chemistry (co-op), student
Admission requirements
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
English (ENG4U) (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Advanced Functions (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Calculus and Vectors (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Two of Biology, Chemistry, Earth and Space Science, Mathematics of Data Management, or Physics
Admission averages: Low 80s
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements.
How to apply
Apply to Physical Sciences and select Medicinal Chemistry as your major.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, or careers?
Please contact Alisia, our Science recruitment coordinator who can answer any questions you have.


 

Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochure
Related programs
Biochemistry
Chemistry
Materials and Nanosciences
 