
Explore Beethoven to Bieber, solos to software
Study music in a program that offers you the flexibility to pursue your passions. At Waterloo, we offer instruction in more than 20 instruments, as well as vocal lessons. But that’s just the beginning.
Balance your study of performance, music theory, and music history with classes on the relationship between music and technology, gender, and peace. Unpack the psychology of music, or delve into pop, jazz, opera, film scores, and more.
Whether you’re aiming for a career as a performer, composer, teacher, recording technician, or music software developer, this program gives you the building blocks you need, and you can even orchestrate some experience before you graduate by enrolling in the co-op stream.
Program highlights
Create friendships for life. Conrad Grebel University College is home to an enthusiastic residence community. Music students benefit from being two floors away from their classes, dedicated practice rooms, and a community with its own passion for music. A residence application is required.
Study in Bali and beyond. Grab your passport! Experience concerts, festivals, and the rich cultural life of countries from Bali to the Baltics with a music & culture travel course.
Available as a regular or co-op program
Available as a major and minor
Graduate with a Bachelor of Arts in Music
Offered by the Faculty of Arts
Watch video on YouTube
What will you learn? 

First-year courses
During your first year, you'll take four introductory Music courses. Plus, you'll have electives to explore an additional major of your choosing.
In upper years, 40% of the classes you'll take will be Music courses.
Learn about courses you'll take for your Music degree.


Customize your degree
You can add additional areas of expertise to your degree by including one or more of the areas of focus in Music.
Music and Peace
Music in a Global Context
Church Music and Worship
You can also include one of the minors available to all Waterloo students. Popular areas of focus for Music students include Church and Worship Music and Intensive Music Specialization.

 

Get tips from Waterloo students
Join our newsletter for tips such as choosing a program, life at Waterloo, and finances.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Contact a student ambassador
Ask a Faculty of Arts student about their program, classes, getting involved on campus, and more!
Questions?Contact an Arts student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve. 

Sample co-op job titles
Music instructor
Business improvement analyst
Teaching assistant
Guidance / at-risk support assistant
Senior business systems analyst

 
 



What can you do with a music degree?

Waterloo Music graduates often pursue careers in music, teaching, and marketing. They often work in arts schools, entertainment companies, and theatres.
Recent graduates
Teacher – Waterloo Region District School Board
Assistant Concert Manager – Tafelmusik Baroque Orchestra & Chamber Choir
Community Manager – Treehaus Collaborative Workspace
Manager, Client Success – Smile.io
Manager of Artistic Operations - Living Arts Centre
Music Therapist - St. Mary’s Hospital
Learn about the future of careers in arts, humanities, social sciences, languages, and creative arts.



Admissions
Apply to Honours Arts or Honours Arts and Business and choose Music as your major at the end of first year.
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Any Grade 12 U English (minimum final grade of at least 70%)
Admission average: Low 80s (co-op and regular)
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements for Honours Arts or Honours Arts and Business.

An audition is required when you would like to choose Music as your major, take your first studio course, or apply for specific music entrance scholarships. Entrance scholarship auditions take place in February and March.



Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, careers?
Please contact our Faculty of Arts recruitment team who can answer any questions you have.

 
Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochure 