
Design systems measured in billionths of a metre

Join us to be a technology rebel, break convention, and create disruptive novel ideas for a bold new scientific frontier!
Nanotechnology Engineering is the foundation of future technology. It saves lives, mitigates climate change, is the pillar of national security, enables AI and quantum computing, powers the global economy, and enhances our quality of life. This discipline has been used to develop COVID mRNA vaccines and pharmaceuticals, biomedical technologies, and create high-performance integrated circuits. It also enhances sustainable development and combats the climate crisis by enabling electrification.
Our program is the first accredited nanotechnology program in Canada and features a dedicated clean room with multimillion-dollar cutting-edge equipment for Nanotechnology Engineering students. You’ll use principles from biology, chemistry, electronics, and quantum physics to create materials and machines far too small to see with the naked eye.
You’ll gain extensive experience in your lab courses and through a range of paid co-op opportunities. When you graduate you'll be well positioned to benefit from the billions of dollars of planned investment in the global nanotechnology sector that enables advanced computing, innovative health care systems, and tackling climate change through renewable energy production and storage.
Program highlights
Tiny but mighty! Use concepts from biology, chemistry, electronics, and quantum physics to design systems measured in billionths of a metre in the $160-million Mike and Ophelia Lazardis Quantum-Nano Centre, a facility packed with the very latest nano-fabrication tools in ultra-sterile cleanrooms.

Meet industry leaders. Make time in your schedule for the annual Waterloo Undergraduate Nanotechnology Conference, where you’ll meet industry leaders, startup founders, and top researchers.

Offered as a co-op program only
Graduate with a Bachelor of Applied Science in Nanotechnology Engineering
Offered by the Faculty of Engineering

What is Nanotechnology Engineering?
Watch video on YouTube

Nanotechnology Engineering at Waterloo
Watch video on YouTube
View more videos, including a tour of our labs.
What will you learn?
During your first year, you'll take a mix of foundational engineering and math courses. In upper years, you'll be able to select topics that interest you the most from our four core areas: nano-engineering materials, nano-electronics, nano-instrumentation, and nano-biosystems.
Learn more about the courses you'll take for your Nanotechnology Engineering degree and the facilities you'll have access to.

Get tips from Waterloo students
Join our monthly newsletter for tips such as choosing a university program, life at Waterloo, and finances.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Questions? Ask a student!
Ask a Faculty of Engineering student about their program, classes, getting involved on campus, and more!
Questions?Contact an Engineering student
 

Videos, lab tours, and more


Nanotechnology Engineering lab tour
Watch video on YouTube
View a tour of the Nanotechnology Engineering teaching facilities and lab spaces. Visit state-of-the-art labs and take a look inside the only dedicated cleanroom for undergraduate students.
How nanotechnology engineering was used to create the COVID mRNA vaccine
Watch video on YouTube

What is Nanotechnology Engineering webinar
Watch video on YouTubeProfessor Ting Tsui, director of the Nanotechnology Engineering program Waterloo, explains what nanotechnology engineering is.
 



Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve.

Sample co-op job titles
Battery materials intern
Research & development engineering
Drug delivery & formulations co-op
Nanofabrication assistant
Optomechanical engineering

 
 



What can I do with a degree in Nanotechnology Engineering?

As a graduate, you might pursue further specialized studies, a career in industry or government, or your own start-up company. With your unique collection of skills and attributes, you'll be employable in many sectors, including environment and sustainability, mining and energy, semiconductor and electronics, and agriculture and food, to name just a few.
Recent graduates
Optoelectronic display engineer – VueReal Inc.
Materials test engineer – Tesla Inc.
Business technology analyst – Deloitte Consulting
NPI engineering specialist – Teledyne DALSA
Research and development engineer – AquaSensing
Pharmacovigilance analyst – ProPharma Group
Scanning probe microscopy experimentalist – Canadian Bank Note Company
Possible professional designation
Professional Engineer
Learn about the future of careers in engineering.



Student life, including Women in Engineering


Student design teams
Have fun and develop hands-on experience through one or more of our 25+ student-led design teams! Design teams include rocketry, concrete canoe, robotics, solar car, submarine racing, autonomous vehicle, Space X Hyperloop, Formula Motorsports, Engineers Without Borders, and more.
You’ll meet people with similar interests and goals, benefit from networking with experts in the engineering profession, and develop some great skills for your résumé.


Women in Engineering
Women in Engineering (WiE) supports female students and engineers while encouraging the next generation of women to pursue careers in engineering. Regardless of gender, orientation, or background, you’re welcome to join this inclusive community.
Any student is also welcome to join Women in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (WiSTEM), a student-run club that promotes equality in STEM through skills workshops, discussions, and guest speakers.

 

Engineering Society (EngSoc)
EngSoc is run by students for students and provides many social and academic events and services to make your experience as a Waterloo Engineering student the best it can be.
Benefit from mentoring for first-year students or get involved and meet other students through an annual conference, semiformal, career fair, charity events, community outreach, and more!


Campus-wide activities
Our campus is packed with opportunities to get involved – no matter how unique your interests.
Between our 250+ student-run clubs, sports and recreation opportunities, student government, and events, student life at Waterloo has something for everyone.

 



Download a program brochure in English, French, or Chinese

English
French
Chinese


Admission requirements

Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Advanced Functions (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Calculus and Vectors (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Chemistry (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Physics (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
English (ENG4U) (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Admission averages: Individual selection from the mid- to high 80s


Complete the Admission Information Form once you've applied.
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements.

 
How to apply
Apply directly to this program on your application.

Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochure

Related programs
Biomedical Engineering
Chemical Engineering
Electrical Engineering


Learn more
Visit our Nanotechnology Engineering program website.

 
 