

Optometrists are dedicated to helping people preserve and enhance their vision as well as their overall health.
The professional Doctor of Optometry program is four years in length, not including the minimum three years of university studies needed prior to entry. Throughout the program, you'll be exposed to all aspects of primary vision care, including ocular health, contact lenses, sports vision, low vision, and electrodiagnostics.
By providing services to patients in our own Optometry Clinic, in external clinics, and in private practice, you'll gain a wealth of practical experience. Your professors and mentors are some of the world's leading authorities on vision science and optometry.

After three or more years of university science, you may apply to Canada’s only optometry program taught in English.

About the program
Requires previous university study
Offered by the School of Optometry and Vision Science within the Faculty of Science
Biology, Biomedical Sciences, and Honours Science provide the fastest route into the Doctor of Optometry program
Admission requirements
Completion of at least three full years of university-level science with specific course requirements.
Optometry Admissions Test (OAT), Admission Information Form, online assessment of personal characteristics (Casper test), and optometrist and character references required.
Minimum overall university average of 75%.

Questions? Ask a student!
Contact a Science student ambassador to learn about their experience.
Ask them questions such as why they chose their program, what the classes are like, and how you can get involved on campus.
Questions?Contact a Science student

Get tips from Waterloo students
Sign up for insider advice that can help you now and in the future.
Monthly topics include how to choose a university program, what it's like to be a Waterloo student, and more.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students
 
Programs that are excellent preparation
Biology
Biomedical Sciences
Honours Science
 