
 Choose a degree that can change the world

Taylor originally came to Waterloo to study Psychology, but after taking the Roots of Conflict, Violence, and Peace course in second year, she knew she had to switch her major to Peace and Conflict Studies. Taylor was able to explore potential careers through co-op work terms and volunteer opportunities at the on-campus Women's Centre, Fossil Free Waterloo, Lawyers Feed the Hungry, and Peace Camp.
Find out how peace is built in complicated situations around the world by connecting theory and practice.
Choose courses from a wide variety of subjects to tailor your program towards your own area of interest. Experience community through small classes and engaged professors. Explore the theory and practice of conflict resolution, human rights, and international development, and get some first-hand experience through co-op placements or a Peace and Conflict Studies internship.
Understand the factors that drive conflict and violence. Think critically about how peace can be built in complex situations to move towards a healthy society where communities and individuals flourish.  
Program highlights
Experience transformational learning. Pursue an internship and take classes with specialists in peacebuilding who will share both their academic and practical expertise.
Enrich your education. Connect with other students and professors who share your passion by joining the Peace and Conflict Studies Living Learning Community at Conrad Grebel University College, located on Waterloo’s main campus.
Available as a regular or co-op program
Available as a major and minor
Graduate with a Bachelor of Arts in Peace and Conflict Studies
Offered by the Faculty of Arts
What will you learn? 

First-year courses
During your first year, you'll take two introductory Peace and Conflict Studies (PACS) courses. Plus, you'll have electives to explore an additional major of your choosing. In upper years, 40% of the classes you'll take will be PACS courses.
Learn about courses you'll take for your PACS degree.


Customize your degree
You can add additional areas of expertise to your degree by including one or more of the program's areas of focus.
Applied Conflict Resolution
Violence and Nonviolence
Religion and Culture
Development, Human Rights, and Social Justice
You can also include one of the minors available to all Waterloo students. Popular choices for Peace and Conflict Studies students include Human Resource Management, Legal Studies, and Political Science.

 

Get tips from Waterloo students
Join our newsletter for tips such as choosing a program, life at Waterloo, and finances.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Contact a student ambassador
Ask a Faculty of Arts student about their program, classes, getting involved on campus, and more!
Questions?Contact an Arts student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve. 

Sample co-op job titles
Research & marketing assistant
Junior project analyst in enterprise strategic initiatives
Program coordinator
Workplace campaign coordinator
Communications assistant
Project coordinator

 
 



What can you do with a degree in Peace and Conflict Studies?

Our graduates commonly pursue careers in communications, social services, human resources, and more. They often work for cities, humanitarian organizations, and school boards.
Recent graduates
Fundraising Coordinator – Operation Groundswell
Junior Consultant – United Nations Development Program Climate Change Team in Vietnam
Corporate Disaster Preparedness Analyst – Toronto Hydro
Child & Youth Worker – Humber River Regional Hospital
Human Resource Generalist – Magna International
Personal Support Worker – The Darling Home for Kids
Emergency Shelter Worker – House of Friendship
Learn about the future of careers in arts, humanities, social sciences, languages, and creative arts.




Admissions
Apply to Honours Arts or Honours Arts and Business and choose Peace and Conflict Studies as your major at the end of first year.
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Any Grade 12 U English (minimum final grade of at least 70%)
Admission average: Low 80s (co-op and regular)
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements for Honours Arts or Honours Arts and Business.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, careers?
Please contact our Faculty of Arts recruitment team who can answer any questions you have.

 

Related programs
Gender and Social Justice
 