

Gain paid, hands-on experience through the only co-op pharmacy program in Canada. Spend co-op work terms at a community pharmacy practice, or explore careers in industry and government.
Pharmacists are medication experts who identify, resolve, and prevent medication-related problems for their patients. Many pharmacists work in community pharmacies, but they also provide care in hospitals, family health teams, and long-term care facilities, often collaborating closely with other health professionals.
At the School of Pharmacy, you’ll work towards your Doctor of Pharmacy (PharmD) degree while alternating between study terms and co-op work terms.
The School of Pharmacy is located at our Health Sciences Campus in downtown Kitchener, approximately five kilometres south of Waterloo's main campus. You'll gain direct experience in patient care through close collaboration with the other services at the Health Sciences Campus, including a full-service medical clinic.
Learn how to become a pharmacist in Canada.
Admission requirements
Successful completion of at least two full years of university-level science with specific course requirements
Minimum overall university average of 75%
Admission Information Form, reference, online assessment of personal characteristics (CASPer test), interview, Fundamental Skills Assessment required
High school students may qualify for Conditional Admission to Pharmacy
Indigenous applicants
The School of Pharmacy is committed to increasing the representation of Indigenous Peoples in its programs. Students who self-identify as Indigenous can complete that section of the OUAC application and an admissions representative will reach out with details about a targeted application pathway that's available. Students can also contact cap@uwaterloo.ca for information.
Conditional Admission to Pharmacy (CAP) status for high school students
Normally, applications to the Pharmacy program are considered from university students who have completed at least two years of undergraduate science. By applying to Conditional Admission to Pharmacy (CAP), high school students can receive a conditional offer of admission to Pharmacy and start the program after two years at Waterloo.
As a CAP student, you can connect with the School and Pharmacy students through events and activities and learn more about the degree program and the profession. With the connections and friendships they establish, CAP students will have a smooth transition into the Pharmacy program. School of Pharmacy staff are also available to guide CAP students toward successful admission into the PharmD program.
Get complete details about the Conditional Admission to Pharmacy (CAP) including requirements, how to apply, and important deadlines.
If you are admitted to CAP, you will receive two offers of admission: one to Honours Science or Life Sciences (Biology or Biomedical Sciences as your major) and one for CAP. You need to accept both offers of admission. 
About the program

Available as a co-op program only
Requires previous university study
Graduate with a Doctor of Pharmacy degree (PharmD)


Offered by the School of Pharmacy
Biology, Biomedical Sciences, and Honours Science provide the fastest route into the Doctor of Pharmacy program

 
Questions? Ask a student!
Contact a Science student ambassador to learn about their experience. Ask them questions such as why they chose their program, what the classes are like, and how you can get involved on campus.

Questions?Contact a Science student
 
 
Gain paid co-op experience
By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you'll gain paid work experience and can explore different areas and types of employers within the pharmaceutical industry.
Sample co-op positions
Pharmacy Assistant
Reconciliation Pharmacy Student
Pharmacist Student - Special Projects & Patient Care
Special Projects Coordinator
Co-op work/study sequences
Year / term
September to December
January to April
May to August
First year
–
School
School
Second year
School
Co-op
School
Third year
Co-op
School
Co-op
Fourth year
School
School
School
Notes
School = four-month school term, Co-op = four-month co-op work term
				The Pharmacy program starts in January.
What can you do with a pharmacy degree?
Sample graduates

Clinical Consultant and Operations Pharmacist, Remedy's RX Specialty Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacist, St. Mary's General Hospital
Drug Safety Associate, Actavis Canada
Pharmacist, Shoppers Drug Mart
General Surgery Pharmacist, Victoria Hospital
Pharmacist, Rexall Pharma Plus
Inpatient Pharmacist, Strathroy Middlesex General Hospital
Pharmaceutical Processor, McNeil Consumer Healthcare
Pharmacist, Parkwood Hospital
"In co-op, I was nervous to work in a hospital as I thought I lacked clinical knowledge. But by the end of the term, not only did I know many medications and their uses, but also how to effectively communicate with patients."Cherry, second-year Pharmacy studentReady to learn more?
Learn how to become a pharmacist
Visit the School of Pharmacy website
Email the School of Pharmacy if you have questions about admissions or the program

 