
 Confront some of life's biggest questions

What is the nature of the human mind? What makes a just society? How can we lead a moral life? 
Philosophy has long been a central component of a liberal arts education — and with good reason. It teaches you critical reasoning like no other discipline. It’s also an excellent addition to studies in mathematics and the sciences. 
In the Philosophy program at Waterloo, you’ll explore enduring dilemmas of human existence, learn the fundamentals of formal logic, and apply philosophical reasoning to highly topical issues and current events. And have the opportunity to apply it all in your co-op work terms, too.
Once you graduate, you’ll have a wide range of options. A philosophy degree is ideal for a career in law and valuable preparation for just about any field that demands breadth of thinking, careful reading, thorough analysis, and clear argumentation.
Program highlights
70+ upper-year courses. Take advantage of an impressive variety of courses after first year, from metaphysics to feminist philosophy to the ethics of end-of-life care.
Get serious work experience. Explore potential careers while earning your Philosophy degree. Choose the co-op system and graduate with 20 months of paid experience.
Available as a regular or co-op program
Available as a major and minor
Graduate with a Bachelor of Arts in Philosophy
Offered by the Faculty of Arts
What will you learn? 

First-year courses
During your first year, you'll take two introductory Philosophy courses. Plus, you'll have electives to explore an additional major of your choosing. In upper years, 40% of the classes you'll take will be Philosophy courses.
Learn about courses you'll take for your Philosophy degree.


Customize your degree
You can add additional areas of expertise by including one or more of the minors available to all Waterloo students.
Popular choices for Philosophy students include Political Science and Catholic Studies.

 

Get tips from Waterloo students
Join our newsletter for tips such as choosing a program, life at Waterloo, and finances.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Contact a student ambassador
Ask a Faculty of Arts student about their program, classes, getting involved on campus, and more!
Questions?Contact an Arts student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve. 

Sample co-op job titles
Research assistant
Junior quality assurance analyst
Product development
Help desk representative

 
 



What can you do with a philosophy degree?

Graduates often pursue careers in teaching, law, consulting, and program coordination. They commonly work for schools, government departments, and more.
Recent graduates
Citizen Services Officer – Service Canada Centre
Global Service Provider, Operations Team – Cisco Systems 
Senior Systems Analyst – BMO Bank of Montreal
Early Childhood Educator – Sacred Heart Day Nursery
Lawyer - Kim Fullerton, Barrister and Solicitor
Analyst - Treasury Board of Canada
Learn about the future of careers in arts, humanities, social sciences, languages, and creative arts.



Admissions
Apply to Honours Arts or Honours Arts and Business and choose Philosophy as your major at the end of first year.
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Any Grade 12 U English (minimum final grade of at least 70%)
Admission average: Low 80s (co-op and regular)
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements for Honours Arts or Honours Arts and Business.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, careers?
Please contact our Faculty of Arts recruitment team who can answer any questions you have.

 
Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochure 