
Discover how the world works by investigating the natural laws and processes of non-living matter.

You're able to specialize in your major of interest right in your first year, giving you a strong foundation for upper-year courses and co-op work terms.
Apply to Physical Sciences and choose one of these eight majors starting in first year. Each major is available through the co-op as well as regular system of study with the exception of Medicinal Chemistry, which is co-op only.

Biological and Medical Physics
Chemistry
Earth Sciences
Materials and Nanosciences


Mathematical Physics
Medicinal Chemistry (co-op only)
Physics
Physics and Astronomy

 
Get tips on how to choose a program within the Faculty of Science.
Available as a regular or co-op program
Graduate with a Bachelor of Science in your major
Offered by the Faculty of Science

Get tips from Waterloo students
Sign up for insider advice that can help you now and in the future.
Monthly topics include how to choose a university program, what it's like to be a Waterloo student, and more.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Questions? Ask a student!
Contact a Science student ambassador to learn about their experience.
Ask them questions such as why they chose their program, what the classes are like, and how you can get involved on campus.
Questions?Contact a Science student
 

Admission requirements
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
English (ENG4U) (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Advanced Functions (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Calculus and Vectors (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Two of Biology, Chemistry, Earth and Space Science, Mathematics of Data Management, or Physics
Admission averages: Low 80s
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements.
How to apply
Apply directly to this program and indicate the major that interests you.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, or careers?
Please contact Alisia, our Science recruitment coordinator who can answer any questions you have.


 
Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochure 