
 Want a career that makes an impact? We’ve got the plan.

Go beyond urban planning and learn to tackle the environmental and social challenges facing the world's urban, rural, and natural areas. Learn how to manage the growth of cities, design efficient transportation systems, protect parks and other natural areas, preserve heritage, and more.
This multidisciplinary program covers everything from economic and legal issues to design skills, land development, and GIS technology. Whether you choose to put your degree to work for government, academia, or the private sector, you'll be ready to create a sustainable future through smart planning. 
Because this is a co-op program, you’ll graduate with 20 months of paid real-world experience. Use your five co-op work terms to explore the many areas within planning so that when you graduate, you have a network of potential employers and you know which career areas you'd like to pursue.
Program highlights
Build industry connections. Expand your network through 20 months of paid co-op work experience or take advantage of Planning’s extensive alumni network that spans the globe.
Jump start your career. As one of only two undergraduate programs accredited by the Canadian Institute of Planners, Planning meets many of the requirements you need to become a Registered Professional Planner after graduation.
Offered as a co-op program only
Graduate with a Bachelor of Environmental Studies in Planning
Offered by the Faculty of Environment
Planning at Waterloo
Watch video on YouTube
Jacklyn loves Planning at Waterloo. She feels like she’s at home because she’s surrounded by people who share her interests in sustainability and the environment.
What will you learn?

First-year courses
During your first year, you'll take a mix of foundational Planning and Environmental Studies courses.
In your upper years, most of the classes you'll take will be Planning courses.
Learn more about the courses you'll take for your Planning degree.


Customize your degree
You can add additional areas of expertise by including one or more of the areas of focus in Planning.
Environmental planning
Land use, transportation, and infrastructure
Urban design
Social planning and community development
You can also include one of the minors available to all Waterloo students, such as Geography and Environmental Management, a popular choice among Planning students. You can also choose from one of the diplomas in the Faculty of Environment.

 

Get tips from Waterloo students
Join our monthly newsletter for tips such as choosing a university program, life at Waterloo, and finances.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Contact a student ambassador
Ask a Faculty of Environment student about their program, classes, getting involved on campus, and more!
Questions?Contact an Environment student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

Get relevant experience in urban planning and build a career network before you graduate. By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve.
Read about how Jacklyn used her co-op term to create safer and inclusive communities. 

Sample co-op job titles
Planning policy assistant
Student planner
Planning assistant
Junior project manager
Coordinator land development
Safety research assistant
Rail operations co-op student
Innovation operations and outreach assistant

 
 



What can you do with a degree in planning?

Waterloo Planning graduates have been very successful pursuing careers as planners in transportation and transit, land development, and policy for municipalities, conservation groups, as well as in the private sector as consultants, developers, project managers, and more.
Recent graduates
Development Planner – Town of Whitby
Land Use Planner – Aird & Berlis
Senior Urban Designer – FoTenn Consultants 
Transportation Planner – Metrolinx
Senior Project Planner – WSP
Landscape Designer – Fossil Landscapes
Community Planner – County of Frontenac
Visit our Waterloo Stories website to learn about what Katrina is doing with her Environment degree.
Learn about the future of careers in environment, sustainability, and climate change.
Further education
While the full range of further education depends on your individual interests, these are common areas where graduates pursued a master's, PhD, or other professional program.

Urban and regional planning
Environmental planning
Geographic information systems
Local economic development


Urban design
Business (MBA)
Architecture
Law

 
Possible professional designation
Accreditation by the Canadian Institute of Planning


"The best thing about Waterloo is the recognition you get from employers who appreciate your high calibre education. Plus being in classes with only 90-120 students lets you get to know people who share the same interests."Alifia, third-year Planning co-op student"Co-op has given me direction and confidence. I would have felt absolutely clueless upon graduation, but now I know what kind of career I want – and I have work experience from five co-op terms that sets me apart from other job applicants."Miila, fourth-year Planning co-op student (minor in Geography) "Planning is a close-knit community. People are friendly and willing to help. I also love applying what I learn in class to creating more livable communities. Each co-op term is a new experience and gives me hands-on experience working in my field."Adrian, third-year Planning co-op student"The best part of co-op is the real-world experience. In Planning, there are different paths to take. Co-op helped me discover what areas interest me – and helped me better understand my course material by applying it during my work terms."Abby, second-year Planning co-op student 
Planning admission requirements
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Any Grade 12 U English (minimum final grade of 75% is required)
Admission averages: Low 80s
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements.
How to apply
Apply directly to this program on your application.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, or careers?
Contact Jaime, our Faculty of Environment recruitment coordinator, who can answer any questions you have.


 
Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochureRelated programs
Architecture
Geography and Environmental Management
Geomatics
 