
 Calling all political junkies

From civil unrest in the Middle East to international trade negotiations, today’s political landscape is complex. Learn how to navigate (and shape) that terrain with a Political Science degree from Waterloo.
Investigate a wide range of topics, or dive deep with a specialization in Canadian Politics, Global Governance, International Relations, or Politics and Business.
Either way, you’ll hone your analytical, writing, critical thinking, and research skills in a mix of lectures, seminars, and workshops. You’ll also get an insiders’ perspective, studying with top scholars involved in current international policy debates. Gain an understanding of comparative politics, international relations, social sciences, and political theory.
Graduate ready to make a difference. Now more than ever, the world needs savvy movers and shakers equipped to respond to current events.
Program highlights
Get serious work experience. Explore potential careers while earning your degree. Choose the co-op system and graduate with 20 months of paid experience.
90+ undergraduate courses. Sink your teeth into Chinese foreign policy, women and politics, global security, or dozens of other highly topical courses.
Available as a regular or co-op program
Available as a major and minor
Graduate with a Bachelor of Arts in Political Science
Offered by the Faculty of Arts
What will you learn?

First-year courses
During your first year, you'll take two introductory Political Science courses. Plus, you'll have electives to explore an additional major of your choosing.
In upper years, 40% of the classes you'll take will be in your major.
Learn about courses you'll take for your Political Science degree.


Customize your degree
You can add additional areas of expertise to your degree by including one or more of the areas of focus within the program.
Politics and Business
Global Governance
Public Policy and Administration
International Relations
You can also include minors available to all Waterloo students. Popular areas of focus for Political Science students include International Studies and Politics and Business.

 

Get tips from Waterloo students
Join our newsletter for tips such as choosing a program, life at Waterloo, and finances.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Contact a student ambassador
Ask a Faculty of Arts student about their program, classes, getting involved on campus, and more!
Questions?Contact an Arts student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve.

Sample co-op job titles
Junior policy analyst
Public affairs coordinator
Information technology communications coordinator
Economic analyst
Junior business systems analyst
Talent acquisition assistant
Research analyst

 
 



What can you do with a degree in Political Science?

Graduates frequently pursue careers in policy and risk analysis, public service, research, marketing, and public relations. They often work in financial institutions, non-profit organizations, law firms, and all levels of government.
Recent graduates
Lawyer - Legal Aid Ontario
Executive Director - Ontario Human Rights Commission
Trade Policy Officer – Government of Alberta
Research Analyst – Legislative Assembly of Ontario
Project Control Officer – Loblaw Companies
Legal Counsel – MADD Canada
Investment Auditor – CIBC
Learn about the future of careers in arts, humanities, social sciences, languages, and creative arts.
Hear from some recent graduates




Ola Idris (BA '22) looks back on her time as a Political Science student and shares what she learned along the way. Learn about what it's like to be a Political Science graduate.

 




Admissions
Apply to Honours Arts or Honours Arts and Business and choose Political Science as your major at the end of first year.
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Any Grade 12 U English (minimum final grade of at least 70%)
Admission average: Low 80s (co-op and regular)
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements for Honours Arts or Honours Arts and Business.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, careers?
Please contact our Faculty of Arts recruitment team who can answer any questions you have.

 

Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochure 