
Get inside other people’s heads

As an Honours Arts Psychology and Social Development Studies major, Abby isn't afraid to say "yes" to opportunities that can help her grow as a person. When the opportunity to work in Calgary, Alberta at a community home for adults with developmental disabilities arose, she took it. Learn more about Abby's experience helping others.
Explore the frontiers of the mind. Examine human behaviour from a variety of perspectives, including neuroscience, cognition, clinical, developmental, industrial/organizational, and social psychology.
Then deepen your understanding with complementary courses in other subject areas, such as legal studies, sociology, biology, and health studies.
Want to customize your program even further? Work with one of our award-winning professors to design a directed studies course around your specific interest. Or get some work experience by enrolling in the co-op stream.
Graduate ready to make an impact. Waterloo Psychology is ranked in the top five in Canada (Academic Rankings of World Universities 2023), and our graduates are treating mental illnesses, improving approaches to education, and creating more satisfying workplaces everyday.
Program highlights
Learn from the best. Waterloo’s internationally renowned Psychology program consistently rates among the best in Canada.
Serious experience. At Waterloo, you’ll get to conduct hands-on research in our state-of-the-art labs. Take advantage of EEG machines, eye-tracking equipment, virtual reality rigs, and more.
Available as a regular or co-op program
Available as a major and minor
Graduate with a Bachelor of Arts in Psychology
Offered by the Faculty of Arts
What will you learn?

First-year courses
During your first year, you'll take two introductory Psychology courses. Plus, you'll have electives to explore an additional major of your choosing. In upper years, 40% of the classes you'll take will be Psychology courses.
Learn about courses you'll take for your Psychology degree.


Customize your degree
The optional Research Intensive specialization provides in-depth training in experimental design. You'll learn to address problems of human motivation, memory, social relations, communication, and many other human capacities by translating them into solvable problems.
You can also include one or more of the minors available to all Waterloo students. Popular choices for Psychology majors include Human Resource Management; Cognitive Science; Legal Studies; Economics; and Sexuality, Marriage, and Family Studies.

 

Get tips from Waterloo students
Join our newsletter for tips such as choosing a program, life at Waterloo, and finances.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Contact a student ambassador
Ask a Faculty of Arts student about their program, classes, getting involved on campus, and more!
Questions?Contact an Arts student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve.

Sample co-op job titles
Research assistant
Marketing and communications assistant
Policy and research assistant
Resource management coordinator
Human resource assistant
Junior user experience designer
Teaching assistant
Sustainability intern

 
 



What can you do with a Bachelor of Arts in Psychology degree?

Graduates find a wide variety of career opportunities in areas such as counselling, various branches of therapy, mental health services, human relations, public education, speech pathology, research, education, and more.
Recent graduates
Teacher, Autism Spectrum Disorders Team - Kerry's Place Autism Services
Protection Support Worker - Children's Aid Society
Psychologist – Community Health Centre
Human Performance Manager – Bruce Power
Customer Implementation Specialist – MappedIn
Human Resource Generalist – ATS Automation Tooling Systems
Therapist – Surrey Place Centre
Learn about the future of careers in arts, humanities, social sciences, languages, and creative arts.
Hear from some recent graduates




Rahim Thawer (BA '08) talks about different courses in the program and how it lead to a career path. Hear more about what you can learn from a Psychology degree.

 


"Psychology is extremely flexible which allows me to customize my degree. The ability to take classes that I am passionate about keeps me motivated. Co-op allows me to learn new skills and provides well-deserved breaks from school terms to recharge."Stephanie, third-year Psychology student
Admissions
Apply to Honours Arts or Honours Arts and Business and choose Psychology as your major at the end of first year.
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Any Grade 12 U English (minimum final grade of at least 70%)
Mathematics of Data Management is recommended.
Admission average: Low 80s (co-op and regular)
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements for Honours Arts or Honours Arts and Business.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, careers?
Please contact our Faculty of Arts recruitment team who can answer any questions you have.

 
After applying you may choose to co-register through Renison University College or St. Jerome's University, both located on Waterloo's campus. You'll earn a Waterloo degree but have a smaller community as your home base.
Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochureRelated programs
Psychology (Bachelor of Science)
Sociology
 