
Get inside the human mind (and earn a science degree at the same time)

If you have a passion for psychology and a strong scientific orientation, we have the program for you. As it happens, it's one of the top five in Canada for Psychology, according to the 2023 Academic Rankings of World Universities. And it offers co-op, which is paid work experience, on top of that.
You’ll take a blend of psychology, science, and math courses with an emphasis on research methods and data analysis. In your third and fourth years, you’ll have the chance to work in small groups, get hands-on laboratory training, and work one-on-one with professors.
Your Bachelor of Science (BSc) in Psychology is the perfect launchpad for a career in behavioural neuroscience, forensic psychology, or cognitive psychology — or for a medical career specializing in neurology, psychiatry, or pediatrics.
Program highlights
Learn from top researchers. Waterloo’s Department of Psychology is one of the strongest in North America, with an international reputation for excellence in clinical and research programs.
Build an impressive résumé. Enrol in one of our apprenticeship courses or choose the co-op system of study. Meanwhile, if you opt for an honours thesis in your final year, you’ll pursue your own scientific research project.
Available as a regular or co-op program
Earn a Bachelor of Science in Psychology 
Offered through the Faculty of Science


As part of your BSc in Psychology degree, you'll be able to get hands-on experience through research projects.

What will you learn?

First-year courses
In your first year, you'll take a mixture of Psychology, Biology, and Chemistry courses to give you the foundations for your upper-year classes. After first year, most of your classes will be Psychology and Science courses.
Learn more about courses you'll take for your Psychology - Science degree.


Customize your Psychology degree
You can add additional areas of expertise to your degree by including one or more of the minors available to all Waterloo students.
Popular areas of focus for Psychology students include Biology, Cognitive Science, and Human Resource Management.

 

Get tips from Waterloo students
Sign up for insider advice that can help you now and in the future.
Monthly topics include how to choose a university program, what it's like to be a Waterloo student, and more.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Questions? Ask a student!
Contact a Science student ambassador to learn about their experience.
Ask them questions such as why they chose their program, what the classes are like, and how you can get involved on campus.
Questions?Contact a Science student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve.

Sample co-op job titles
Child & youth program assistant
Marketing assistant
Personal care worker
Health promotion assistant
Undergraduate research assistant
Science peer tutor

 
 



What can you do with a Bachelor of Science degree in psychology?

Graduates typically find a wide variety of career opportunities in counselling, therapy, mental health services, neuroscience, teaching, human relations, psychiatry, speech pathology, research, and education. Many graduates choose to continue their education with a specialized Master's degree.
Graduates
Youth Worker and Volunteer Resources Coordinator - Vietnamese Women's Association of Toronto
Coordinator - Princess Margaret Cancer Centre
Patient Satisfaction Coordinator – Ontario Hospital Association
Lab Coordinator - Infant Cognition and Communication Lab, New York University
Human Resource Coordinator - Thomas Cook Group (Canada)
Change Management Consultant - Andersen Consulting
Assistant Crown Attorney - Ministry of the Attorney General



How does Psychology in Science differ from Psychology through the Faculty of Arts?

The first and most obvious difference is the degree you will obtain! If choose Psychology through the Faculty of Science, you'll graduate with a Bachelor of Science (BSc) versus a Bachelor of Arts (BA). One degree isn't necessarily better than the other. It really comes down to whether you enjoy science. Your Psychology courses will largely be the same; however your other courses will be different.
You'll take chemistry and biology courses, labs, and other science electives alongside your Psychology courses. If you enjoy science, you'll enjoy psychology in the Faculty of Science. In the Bachelor of Arts program, most of your electives will be in subjects offered by the Faculty of Arts.
Both options offer the opportunity to include paid co-op work terms as part of your degree.


"The best thing about my program is the variety of courses and the flexibility I have. Co-op has shown me that I don't necessarily have to go into a professional school or pursue a master's degree. My options are a lot more open than I thought they were."Jerika, third-year Psychology student (minor in Biology)
Admission requirements
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
English (ENG4U) (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Advanced Functions (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Calculus and Vectors (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Two of Biology, Chemistry, Earth and Space Science, Mathematics of Data Management, Physics
Admission averages: Low 80s
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements for Life Sciences (which is the entry program for Psychology majors).
How to apply
Apply to Life Sciences and select Psychology as your major at the end of first year. To continue on to second year as a Psychology major, you must have
a minimum 60% cumulative overall average (all your first-year courses),
minimum 60% cumulative Science average (just your science courses), and
minimum 75% cumulative Psychology average (just your Psychology courses).


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, or careers?
Please contact Alisia, our Science recruitment coordinator who can answer any questions you have. 


 
Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochureRelated programs
Psychology (Bachelor of Arts degree)
Honours Science
 