
Be a leader in the multi-billion-dollar sport and recreation industries

In an upper-year advanced seminar, students visited Maple Leaf Sports and Entertainment (MLSE) LaunchPad in Toronto.
Go beyond a typical sports management degree by focusing on sports and recreation! Gain transferrable business skills combined with expertise in planning, managing, and evaluating sport and recreation programs and events. Why is this good for your future? It opens the door to exciting jobs in many different industries.
Whether you dream of managing a city’s community recreation programs, working for a major league hockey team, organizing music festivals, developing a marketing program to attract new audiences, or running your own athletic gear startup, you’ll be prepared for it all.
Program highlights
Sports + recreation + business. Along with courses focused on organizing and managing recreation and sport programs and events, you'll gain valuable business skills in marketing, communications, finance, and human resources that apply to any industry.
Real-world experience. From industry case studies and projects to field trips and experiential learning, you’ll have lots to add to your resume by the time you graduate.
Offers of admission
If you're admitted to the program, your Offer of Admission will be to Recreation and Leisure Studies. Once you accept your offer, you’ll be enrolled in Recreation and Sport Business  and start that major in September.
Available as a regular or co-op program
Graduate with a Bachelor of Arts in Recreation and Sport Business
Offered by the Faculty of Health

Discover if Recreation and Sport Business is right for you.


View our digital program brochure 
 
Hands-on experience through paid co-op terms
Watch video on YouTube
Jon spent a co-op work term developing marketing, communications, operations, and event planning skills with the Ontario Volleyball Association.
What will you learn?

First-year courses
You'll have a mix of electives from different subjects along with gaining the foundations for your upper-year classes. After first year, about half of the classes you’ll take will be Recreation courses.
Learn about courses you'll take for your Recreation and Sport Business degree.


Customize your degree
Add areas of expertise to your degree by pursuing areas of focus, like Event Management within the program or by choosing a double major or joint honours.
You can also include one of the minors available to all Waterloo students. Popular choices include Event Management, Communication Studies, and Human Resource Management.

 

Get tips from Waterloo students
Sign up for insider advice that can help you now and in the future.
Topics include how to choose a program, what it's like to be a Waterloo student, the differences between high school and university, and more.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Questions? Ask a student!
Connect with a current student ambassador to learn about their experience in the program.
Ask them questions such as why they chose their program, what the classes are like, and how you can get involved on campus.
Questions?Contact a Health student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve.
Learn about Katie's co-op experiences in Recreation and Sport Business.

Sample co-op job titles
Recreation program assistant
Promotions & events coordinator
Tournament operations assistant
Marketing outreach events associate
Outdoor education assistant
Athletics and recreation sport marketing
Community recreation facilitator
Sports management coordinator

 
 
 

How to choose: co-op or regular?Take our quiz! 
 
 



What careers can you pursue with a Recreation and Sport Business degree?

With such a huge range of skills, our graduates pursue careers in a variety of areas related to sports, recreation, and business. This includes marketing and communications, game operations, event management, facilities management, human resources, and more.
Graduates work for sports and entertainment companies, professional sports teams, non-profit organizations, community organizations, and large for-profit companies.

Sample graduates
President of Hockey Operations & General Manager – Edmonton Oil Kings
Communications Manager – Pretty River Sports & Entertainment
Coordinator, Game Operations – Maple Leaf Sports & Entertainment
Defensive, Special Teams Quality Control Coach – Hamilton Tiger-Cats Football Club
Recreation Facilitator – Revera
Club Support Coordinator – Kin Canada
Membership Director – YMCA


Graduate stories
Learn about what some graduates are doing with their degree.
Jonathan's entrepreneurial venture
Out of the classroom and into the wild
Learn more about the future of careers in business.

 
Read profiles and view videos about the path Recreation graduates took to pursue their career. 



Common questions about the program

What’s the difference between this program and sport management or sport administration programs at other universities?
While there are always subtle differences between similar programs at different universities, Waterloo’s program is comparable to programs called Sport Management or Sport Administration at other universities and can lead to similar careers. However, in addition to learning about how to apply business skills in community and professional sport settings, you’ll also learn about the broader recreation industry, opening doors to additional career options. Plus you'll have the advantage of exploring careers and gain relevant work experience through North America's largest co-op program or the EDGE certificate program for students not in co-op.
Is this program available online?
No. While you may be able to take some courses online, most courses required for the degree are available through in-person classes only.
How long does it take to complete this program?
It takes four years to complete this program as a full-time student through the regular system of study in which you’ll take courses between September and April each year and have your summers off.
You can also choose the co-op system of study where you’ll alternate between full-time studies and full-time jobs relating to your program. A co-op program takes five years to complete – and you’ll graduate with nearly two years of paid work experience.
You can complete over a longer period as a part-time program.


"We have the best professors who care about you and what your interests are beyond the classroom. I’m grateful for the office hour chats and advice they gave me over the years; I regularly leverage the different techniques I learned in class in my job."Katie, fifth-year Recreation and Sport Business student (co-op)"Every university experience is different, but if you want to make the most out of your time here at Waterloo, make sure that you get involved! There are so many things that you can do on campus that can make your experience here so great!"Lauren, second-year Recreation and Sport Business student"Going into the community and getting to experience and see first-hand the impact recreation and leisure has on people’s lives is incredible. On campus, it's comforting to have approachable professors who are always willing to help students."Sarah, fourth-year Recreation and Sport Business student"My co-op position turned into a full-time job! Now, I'm the General Manager of an athletics facility. It requires a number of different skills. I’m confident the things I learned in class are what prepared me to be successful in this field."Bryce, Recreation and Sport Business graduate
Admission requirements
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Any Grade 12 U English (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Admission average: Low 80s (co-op and regular)
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements for Recreation and Leisure Studies (RLS). You'll apply to RLS for the Recreation and Sport Business major.
How to apply
Apply to Recreation and Leisure Studies and choose Recreation and Sport Business as your major.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, or careers?
Please contact Clare Stevens, our Faculty of Health recruitment co-ordinator who can answer any questions you have.


 

Discover if Recreation and Sport Business is right for you.


Find your program in the Faculty of HealthTake our quiz! 
 
Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochureRelated programs
Recreation and Leisure Studies
Therapeutic Recreation
Honours Arts and Business
 