
 Explore the fundamental beliefs that bind us — and divide us

Who or what is the divine? What does it mean to be human? How do spiritual beliefs shape our world? In this program, you’ll examine how religions have influenced politics, economics, culture, art, science, and society throughout history — and continue to do so today.
Tailor your degree to your passions. We offer more than 100 undergraduate courses covering the religions of the world, Jewish studies, Christian traditions, and religious culture and society. Thanks to strong links with the Department of Religion and Culture at neighbouring Wilfrid Laurier University, you’ll have access to even more learning opportunities.
You’ll graduate equipped with the multicultural understanding, critical thinking skills, and historical knowledge to succeed in a variety of careers. And, if you take the co-op stream, up to two years of work experience on your resume.
Program highlights
Get serious work experience. Explore careers and earn money to pay for school by completing four optional co-op work terms – and graduate 20 months of career-building work experience.
Available as a regular or co-op program
Available as a major and minor
Graduate with a Bachelor of Arts in Religious Studies
Offered by the Faculty of Arts
What will you learn? 

First-year courses
During your first year, you'll take two introductory Religious Studies courses. Plus, you'll have electives to explore an additional major of your choosing. In upper years, 40% of the classes you'll take will be Religious Studies courses.
Learn about courses you'll take for your Religious Studies degree.


Customize your degree
You can add additional areas of expertise by including one or more of the minors available to all Waterloo students.

 

Get tips from Waterloo students
Join our newsletter for tips such as choosing a program, life at Waterloo, and finances.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Contact a student ambassador
Ask a Faculty of Arts student about their program, classes, getting involved on campus, and more!
Questions?Contact an Arts student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve.
Sample co-op job titles
Internship programme
Technical analyst
Junior risk officer
English facilitation assistant
Business coordinator



What can you do with a degree in Religious Studies?

Waterloo Religious Studies graduates commonly pursue careers as pastors, youth ministers, teachers, life coordinators, and facilitators. They work in churches, schools, hospitals, and child care services.
Recent graduates
Development Officer – St. Joseph’s Healthcare Foundation of London
Teacher – Durham Catholic District School Board
Executive Assistant – Good Samaritan Hospital
Minister – Anglican Church of Canada
Kindergarten Teacher – Simcoe Muskoka Catholic District School Board
Registered Early Childhood Educator – Owl Child Care Services of Ontario
Administrative Assistant – St. Francis of Assisi Church
Learn about the future of careers in arts, humanities, social sciences, languages, and creative arts.



Admissions
Apply to Honours Arts or Honours Arts and Business and choose Religious Studies as your major at the end of first year.
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Any Grade 12 U English (minimum final grade of at least 70%)
Admission average: Low 80s (co-op and regular)
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements for Honours Arts or Honours Arts and Business.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, careers?
	Please contact our Faculty of Arts recruitment team who can answer any questions you have.
 
Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochure 