
Can scientists make it big in business? You bet.

Jumpstart your career with a one-of-a-kind degree that equips you with both scientific know-how and valuable business skills.
Science and Business at Waterloo combines studies in biology, chemistry, and physics with courses in economics, accounting, marketing, law, and entrepreneurship.
Focus your degree by specializing in one of three scientific disciplines, or take a broader range of courses tailored to your interests by remaining unspecialized. Meanwhile, in one of Canada’s top universities for business, you’ll work in small groups on case studies, business plans, and market analysis, as well as have the opportunity to gain paid work experience through the co-op stream.
When you graduate, the opportunities are many: this is a degree you can put to work in intellectual property, research, mutual funds, technical sales, business development, law, and a host of other fields.
Program highlights
Connect outside of class. The Science and Business Students’ Association organizes beach days, BBQs, and end-of-term events… plus pre-exam breakfasts and résumé critiques.
Influence industry. Join WatSolve, our popular pro bono business consulting group that takes real science-related business problems and creates impactful solutions. Gain skills and make meaningful impacts while companies implement solutions customized to their needs. Win-win!
Available as a regular or co-op program
Graduate with a Bachelor of Science in Science and Business
Offered by the Faculty of Science
What will you learn?

First-year courses
In your first year, you'll take a mixture of Science and Business, Accounting and Financial Management, and Economics courses to give you the foundations for your upper-year classes.
Learn more about courses you'll take for your Science and Business degree.


Customize your degree
You can add additional areas of expertise to your degree by specializing in one of the following:
Biochemistry
Biology
Biotechnology
You can also include one of the minors available to all Waterloo students.

 

Get tips from Waterloo students
Sign up for insider advice that can help you now and in the future.
Monthly topics include how to choose a university program, what it's like to be a Waterloo student, and more.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Questions? Ask a student!
Contact a Science student ambassador to learn about their experience.
Ask them questions such as why they chose their program, what the classes are like, and how you can get involved on campus.
Questions?Contact a Science student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve.

Sample co-op job titles
Marketing research analyst
Marketing and operation coordinator
Validation & quality assurance analyst
Laboratory technician
Undergraduate research assistant
Science peer tutor
Sustainability project analyst

 
 



What can you do with a degree in Science and Business?

With their two areas of expertise, graduates of the program commonly pursue careers in finance, science, technology, health and medical research, consulting, and in the energy and oil industry practising project and program analysis, business analysis, and technology development.
Graduates
Business Analyst - The Hospital for Sick Children
Clinical Research Officer - Canadian Agency for Drugs and Technologies in Health
Drug Safety Operations Team Lead - Hoffmann-LaRoche Ltd.
Logistic Planner - Praxair Canada Inc.
Project Leader - Apotex Incorporated
Science Commercialization Officer - Science Enterprise Algoma
Privacy Analyst - eHealth Ontario
Account Manager - Pivotal Labs
Learn about the future of careers in business.



Admission requirements
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
English (ENG4U) (minimum final grade of 70%)
Advanced Functions (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Calculus and Vectors (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Two of Biology, Chemistry, Earth and Space Science, Mathematics of Data Management, Physics
Admission averages: Low 80s
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements.
How to apply?
Apply directly to this program on your application.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, or careers?
Please contact Alisia, our Science recruitment coordinator who can answer any questions you have.


 
Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochureRelated programs
Biotechnology/Chartered Professional Accountancy
Environment and Business
Honours Arts and Business
 