
Having your head in the clouds is a good thing

Earn a Bachelor of Science degree and your Commercial Pilot Licence through the largest aviation program in Canada.
Your core science education will be supplemented with courses that include cartography, climatology, geographic information systems, aerodynamics, and remote sensing. Our curriculum also emphasizes the organizational and communication skills you’ll need to succeed in the working world.
Aviation and aerospace industries demand a new breed of specialists who have well-developed analytical and decision-making skills, along with an understanding of complex aircraft systems.
Waterloo’s Science and Aviation program equips you with that expertise.
Program highlights

Log 200+ flight hours. You’ll spend lots of time in the air — flight hours that count toward your Commercial Pilot Licence with aviation courses through the Waterloo Wellington Flight Centre.


Build valuable skills. When you graduate, your combination of a university degree and a pilot’s licence will set you up for a wide range of airborne and ground-based careers — and give you a distinctive edge over your competition.

Offered through the regular system of study
Graduate with a Bachelor of Science in Science and Aviation
Offered by the Faculty of Science 

Through a partnership with the Waterloo Wellington Flight Centre, you'll receive at least 200 hours of flight experience at one of Canada's largest and most experienced flight training centres. You'll learn to fly and attain your multi-engine and multi-instrument ratings.
What will you learn?

First-year courses
In your first year, you'll take a mixture of Aviation, Geography, and science courses to give you the foundations for your upper-year classes. After first year, most of your classes will be Aviation and science courses with some Mathematics and Geography courses.
Learn more about courses you'll take for your Science and Aviation degree.


Customize your degree
You can add additional areas of expertise to your degree by including one or more of the minors available to all Waterloo students.

 

Get tips from Waterloo students
Sign up for insider advice that can help you now and in the future.
Monthly topics include how to choose a university program, what it's like to be a Waterloo student, and more.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Questions? Ask a student!
Contact a Science student ambassador to learn about their experience.
Ask them questions such as why the chose their program, what the classes are like, and how you can get involved on campus.
Questions?Contact a Science student
 

What can you do with a degree in aviation?

Science and Aviation graduates pursue careers as pilots as well as flight instructors and aerial surveyors.
Recent graduates

Flight Instructor, Waterloo Wellington Flight Centre
Pilot Cadet, Cathay Pacific Airways



"The best thing about my program are the sights you see. You get to experience the workplace before you ever even graduate. Not to mention your office is thousands of feet in the sky! This program is incredibly rewarding."Shabnam, fourth-year Science and Aviation student
Admission requirements
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
English (ENG4U) (minimum final grade of 70%)
Advanced Functions (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Calculus and Vectors (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Two of Biology, Chemistry, Earth and Space Science, Mathematics of Data Management, or Physics
Admission average: Mid-80s
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements.
How to apply?
Apply directly to this program on your application.
Qualified applicants will be asked to complete a screening process by the Waterloo-Wellington Flight Centre that includes a program briefing session, Transport Canada Category 1 Medical Certification, and Aviation Language Proficiency Test (for Permanent Residents and visa students only; the medical certification must be completed prior to writing the test).


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, or careers?
Please contact Alisia, our Science recruitment coordinator who can answer any questions you have.


 
Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochureRelated program
Geography and Aviation
 