
 Get ready to talk relationships

The only one of its kind in Canada, this program goes far beyond basic anatomical knowledge and sexual health. Use different perspectives to explore relationships; communication; parenting; how media affects our understanding of gender, sex, and relationships; the impact of culture on sexual values; and more, all from a social justice perspective.
Meanwhile, the program itself has a real family vibe. You’ll enjoy small classes and a tight-knit community at St. Jerome’s University, one of Waterloo's on-campus University Colleges.
With your Waterloo degree, you can choose from a slew of high-impact career paths, including teaching, counselling, social services, community engagement, and more. And you can always explore them early through the co-op stream.
Program highlights
15 electives = lots of choice. Our flexible curriculum includes 15 electives, freeing you up to add interests in other subjects (and opening the door to a double major, minor, or specialization). If you’re interested in counselling or social work, check out our counselling specialization.
Build an awesome résumé. Looking for hands-on experience? We offer an eight-month practicum in fourth year and intensive research options. You can also gain 20 months of related paid co-op work experience through Waterloo’s Honours Arts and Business or Honours Arts programs.
Available as a regular or co-op program
Available as a major and minor
Graduate with a Bachelor of Arts in Sexuality, Marriage and Family Studies
Offered by the Faculty of Arts
What will you learn?

First-year courses
During your first year, you'll take two introductory Sexuality, Marriage and Family Studies courses. Plus, you'll have electives to explore an additional major of your choosing.
Learn about courses you'll take for your Sexuality, Marriage and Family Studies degree.


Customize your degree
You can add additional areas of expertise by including one or more of the minors available to all Waterloo students.
Popular choices for Sexuality, Marriage and Family Studies students include Communication Studies, Counselling, and Human Services Practicum.

 

Get tips from Waterloo students
Join our newsletter for tips such as choosing a program, life at Waterloo, and finances.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Contact a student ambassador
Ask a Faculty of Arts student about their program, classes, getting involved on campus, and more!
Questions?Contact an Arts student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve.

Sample co-op job titles
Experiential learning marketing assistant
Recruitment assistant
Marketing coordinator
Guest services attendant

 
 



What can you do with a Sexuality, Marriage and Family Studies degree?

Graduates commonly pursue careers in teaching, youth support work, and sexual health education in schools, government, non-profit organizations, and more.
Recent graduates
Youth Support Worker – Argus Residence for Young People
Registered Nurse, Mental Health – Grand River Hospital
Client Support Coordinator – Planned Parenthood Waterloo Region
Case Worker – Christian Horizons
Human Resource Generalist – Magnet Forensics
Counsellor – University of Waterloo
Early Childhood Educator – Waterloo Catholic District School Board
Learn about the future of careers in arts, humanities, social sciences, languages, and creative arts.



Admissions
Apply to Honours Arts or Honours Arts and Business and choose Sexuality, Marriage and Family Studies as your major at the end of first year.
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Any Grade 12 U English (minimum final grade of at least 70%)
Admission average: Low 80s (co-op and regular)
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements for Honours Arts or Honours Arts and Business.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, careers?
Please contact our Faculty of Arts recruitment team who can answer any questions you have.

 


Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochureRelated programs
Psychology
Gender and Social Justice
 