
Become a professional change maker.
Do you have a passion for social justice? Do you feel a calling to help others and create change? With a Bachelor of Social Work (BSW), you'll empower individuals, families, groups, and communities to sustain and improve their quality of life.
Our 10-month BSW program lays the foundation for generalist practice in a range of social service, health, and community settings. The theories, approaches, and skills developed through your BSW degree coursework will ensure your strong ability to use a social justice lens for assessment, intervention, advocacy, and social action purposes.
In the Social Work program, you'll have the opportunity to integrate your learning through a field placement. Field placements provide relevant foundational skills to move forward in the profession. Some areas of field placement experiences include (but are not limited to)
child welfare,
community mental health and addictions,
working with 2SLGBTQIA+ and BIPOC communities, and
working with persons with disabilities.

In high school?
If you're considering pursuing a BSW degree, you can prepare for this program by first completing a Social Development Studies (SDS) degree or another undergraduate degree as long as you meet the prerequisites.


College or university student elsewhere?
You can apply as a transfer student or through the Social Service Worker pathway. If you already have a BA, you just need to have completed the prerequisites, which can be done as part of SDS or another BA. If you have questions, please connect with an academic advisor.

 
Program highlights
10-month professional program. We're one of the few 10-month BSW programs in Ontario. As a student, you'll learn both in class and in the field to equip you for a career in social work.
Take your career to the next level. Most careers in Social Work require a BSW designation (or higher).
Access to advanced-standing MSW degree. As a graduate of the BSW program, you're eligible to apply for an advanced-standing Master of Social Work (MSW) program. Get an advanced degree in as little as a year, rather than two.
Flexible and supportive. This program is flexible, offering part-time students access to online courses with short in-class components. You'll also receive unparalleled support from instructors, professors, staff, and peers.
Field placement. Includes 720 hours of field placement work to prepare you for a professional designation with the Canadian Association for Social Work Education (CASWE).
Study full-time or part-time
Graduate with a BSW, eligible for Ontario College of Social Worker and Social Service Worker (OCSWSSW) registration
Flexible learning modes

Discover if the Bachelor of Social Work is right for you.


View our digital brochure.
 
Watch video on YouTube
What will you learn?

Building a foundation
BSW courses will give you a strong foundation for social work practice. Coursework explores how social work intersects with diversity, Indigenous perspectives, mental health and addictions, and social determinants of health, among others.
Experiential learning
As part of the BSW program, you will participate in seminars that go hand-in-hand with your practicum placement. You will bring your classroom learning to your placement, bring your placement learning back to the classroom, and learn from the experiences of your peers. This exchange of knowledge is an integral and expansive part of the BSW learning experience.
Deepen your understanding
Elective courses allow you to choose one subject to explore further. Whether you're interested in working with older adults, international populations, or expanding your knowledge of social work fields of practice, your elective will enhance your BSW.
Full-time study
Part-time study

Completed in as little as 10 months
Seven core courses, one elective, three practicum courses
In class two days per week
Three days of field placement per week
Guaranteed field placement to complete required 720 hours
More information about full-time study


Completed within three years, flexible to suit a busy lifestyle
Seven core courses, one elective, three practicum courses
A maximum of two courses per term + one field placement
Two days of field placement per week after completion of at least one 400-level SWREN course
Guaranteed field placement to complete required 720 hours
More information about part-time study


NEW elective: Two Row on the Grand River; Land-based learning: Cultural Resurgence, Respect and Reconciliation

This land/water-based course will join the Two Row on the Grand participants in a community-based and organized 10-day canoe paddle from Cambridge, Ontario to Port Maitland, Ontario (163 km). The course will provide students with opportunities to engage and understand the reality of Indigenous cultural knowledge and perspectives (ontology), the value or goodness of daily actions (axiology), and the way of knowledge or how we come to know by means of the natural environment and knowledge keepers (epistemology).


Admissions
Please refer to the Social Work website for a detailed listing of the BSW admission requirements.
Common questions
If your question isn't answered below, please contact us at renison.bswadmissions@uwaterloo.ca

What if I have not yet completed my bachelor's degree?

Though the BSW is a post-degree program and a bachelor's degree is a requirement for admission, you may consider pursuing a Social Development Studies (SDS) degree. SDS is an excellent way to build your understanding of social work and ensure you have the seven prerequisite courses before applying to the BSW program.
Applicants to the BSW program must have a Bachelor of Arts degree of equivalent to be eligible to begin the program. If you're completing your degree at the time of application to the BSW, you may be eligible for a conditional offer of admission. 



Can I apply with a Social Service Worker diploma and receive transfer credits?

Applicants to the BSW program must have completed a Bachelor of Arts degree or equivalent to be eligible to begin the program. If you have a Social Service Worker diploma, you can apply to the BSW through our Social Service Worker Pathway. If you're accepted into the pathway, you'll receive transfer credits into the Bachelor of Arts Social Development Studies (SDS) program to fast-track your completion of an undergraduate degree. As part of your pathway acceptance, you will also receive a conditional offer to the BSW, which begins after your SDS degree is complete.



Do I have to do Social Development Studies at Waterloo first?
No. Applicants to the BSW program must have completed a Bachelor of Arts degree or equivalent to be eligible to begin the program, but it does not have to be an SDS degree. Many students, however, do choose to pursue an SDS degree to complete prerequisite courses.


What if I have a degree but I'm missing prerequisites?

If you have completed an undergraduate degree but are missing one or more prerequisites, you can complete those courses during the application process. If you have completed a minimum of 4 prerequisites and/or you are registered for them at the time of application, you may receive a conditional offer to the BSW.



What are the prerequisites for BSW?

Here are the 7 prerequisites to the BSW program.



Can I complete my BSW online?

The full-time BSW is in-person, on-campus. The part-time BSW is offered as blended learning; courses are primarily online, however, there may be one or two in-person classes on campus per semester.



What can you do with a BSW degree?

A BSW is a professional degree which is required for many social work careers and related professions. We see our graduates working forward in a variety of career areas, including
child welfare
community mental health and addiction
housing support
settlement services
youth services
2SLGBTQIA+
Black, Indigenous, and people of colour
persons with disabilities



Can I pursue further education?

Graduates from the BSW program often pursue Master of Social Work degrees or further education in related areas (e.g. public health, law). Once you have completed a BSW degree, you are eligible to apply for advanced-standing MSW programs, including the Waterloo MSW program housed right at Renison's School of Social Work.



How long does the BSW take?

Full-time students in the BSW program can expect to complete their degree in as little as 10 months. Part-time students complete the BSW program within three years.


"The Bachelor of Social Work arms me for my decolonizing work in the sense that it supported me to think critically moving into the field and challenged me to shape, reshape, and then reshape again, the way that I saw things or harness the lense that I'm Akeisha, BSW '15"I remember the campus, the professors, and the friends I made. It really was a memorable program educationally and socially. I have and still am utilizing and implementing a lot of the learning that came from this experience."Martha, BSW '17, MSW '18 