
 Tackle serious social questions

How does society handle inequality, poverty, and crime? How do social groups interact? How can we improve health care, criminal justice, religion, the economy, and our relationships to one another?
This is a program where you’ll wrestle with pressing questions — and develop the tools to create solutions to local and global challenges.
You’ll explore topics such as age, class, ethnicity, religion, gender, criminality, education, work, social change, and politics. And when you study Sociology at Waterloo, you’ll learn from leading experts committed to creating an outstanding classroom experience, ranked in the top 75 in the world (Academic Rankings of World Universities 2023).
As a sociologist, you’ll find career opportunities in a wide range of fields, including government, the financial sector, health, policy and research, law, academia, policing, and non-profit organizations. Want to explore them early? You can start by enrolling in the co-op stream and gaining up to two years of work experience prior to graduating.
Program highlights
Sociology major = flexibility. Our flexible curriculum leaves plenty of room to explore your interests through minors or double majors, while co-op opportunities are also available.
Academic and social support. The student-led Sociology Society coordinates movie nights, student and prof mixers, academic help sessions, special lectures, and more.
Available as a regular or co-op program
Available as a major and minor
Graduate with a Bachelor of Arts in Sociology
Offered by the Faculty of Arts
What will I learn? 

First-year courses
During your first year, you'll take two Sociology courses. Plus, you'll have electives to explore an additional major of your choosing. In upper years, 40% of the classes you'll take will be Sociology courses.
Learn about courses you'll take for your Sociology degree.


Customize your degree
You can add additional areas of expertise by including one or more of the minors available to all Waterloo students.
Popular minors for Sociology students include Legal Studies, Political Science, and History.

 

Get tips from Waterloo students
Join our newsletter for tips such as choosing a program, life at Waterloo, and finances.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Contact a student ambassador
Ask a Faculty of Arts student about their program, classes, getting involved on campus, and more!
Questions?Contact an Arts student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve.

Sample co-op job titles
Human rights, equity and inclusion support and engagement coordinator
Business analyst identity access and privacy
Research assistant
Technical writer
Community relations coordinator

 
 



What can you do with a degree in sociology?

Waterloo Sociology graduates often pursue careers in social work, research, education, human resources, and recruiting. They commonly work for government, social service departments, counselling centres, and a wide variety of businesses.
Recent graduates
Social Worker – Counselling Centre of East Algoma
Market Manager – Apple Canada 
Recreation Therapist - YMCA
Digital Project Coordinator – Rogers Communications 
Research Associate – Conestoga College
Law Enforcement Agent - Canada Revenue Agency
Human Resource Manager - Colgate-Palmolive Canada
Learn about the future of careers in the humanities, social sciences, languages, and creative arts.



Admissions
Apply to Honours Arts or Honours Arts and Business and choose Sociology as your major at the end of first year.
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Any Grade 12 U English (minimum final grade of at least 70%)
Admission average: Low 80s (co-op and regular)
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements for Honours Arts or Honours Arts and Business.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, careers?
Please contact our Faculty of Arts recruitment team who can answer any questions you have.

 
Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochureRelated program
Social Development Studies
 