
 Say hola to an in-depth understanding of the Hispanic world

Our language-oriented stream emphasizes a fluent knowledge of Spanish, focusing on understanding, speaking, reading, and writing, including courses for business and translation. Meanwhile, Waterloo’s Hispanic club gives you the chance to practice your conversation skills with peers.
Alternatively, you can opt to specialize in Latin American Literatures and Cultures. In this stream, you'll study the major literary and cultural trends of Latin America, from pre-Columbian times to the present, while developing strong research skills along the way.
Once you graduate, your Spanish degree opens up all kinds of possibilities, including business, teaching, international relations, and international development. You can also add appeal to your degree by gaining some work experience through co-op.
Program highlights
Build an awesome résumé. Focus your studies by including a diploma in Spanish Language or Latin American Studies as part of your degree. Or choose the co-op program and gain 20 months of paid work experience.
Immerse yourself in Spanish. Dust off your passport, brush up on your flamenco or salsa skills, and take part in an exchange to Spain.
Available as a regular or co-op program
Available as a major and minor
Graduate with a Bachelor of Arts in Spanish
Offered by the Faculty of Arts
What will you learn?

First-year courses
During your first year, you'll take two introductory Spanish courses. Plus, you'll have electives to explore an additional major of your choosing. In upper years, 40% of the classes you'll take will be Spanish courses.
Learn about courses you'll take for your Spanish degree.


Customize your degree
You can add additional areas of expertise by including one or more of the minors available to all Waterloo students.

 

Get tips from Waterloo students 
Join our newsletter for tips such as choosing a program, life at Waterloo, and finances.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Contact a student ambassador
Ask a Faculty of Arts student about their program, classes, getting involved on campus, and more!
Questions?Contact an Arts student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve. 

Sample co-op job titles
Online marketing liaison
Enterprise marketing assistant
Usability research assistant
Parking control officer
Mobile operations analyst

 
 



What can you do with a degree in Spanish?

Waterloo Spanish graduates commonly pursue careers where their multi-language skills are put to use, such as in business, auditing, and teaching. They typically work in financial institutions, schools, and more.
Recent graduates
Freelance Translator – TransPerfect Translations
Account Manager – Communications Zone Telus
Marketing Coordinator – Octopuz
Media Services – BlackBerry
Associate, Human Resources – Frost Bank
Service Representative – Your Neighbourhood Credit Union
Learn about the future of careers in arts, humanities, social sciences, languages, and creative arts.



Admissions
Apply to Honours Arts or Honours Arts and Business and choose Spanish as your major at the end of first year.
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Any Grade 12 U English (minimum final grade of at least 70%)
Admission average: Low 80s (co-op and regular)
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements for Honours Arts or Honours Arts and Business.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, careers?
Please contact our Faculty of Arts recruitment team who can answer any questions you have.

 
Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochure 