
Get a degree that’s highly significant

As a student in Canada's largest Department of Statistics and Actuarial Science, you'll benefit from the wide variety of courses and our professors' research which enriches your classes.
In today’s data-driven world, statisticians are in high demand. Get the skills you need to help businesses market new products, researchers evaluate medical treatments, governments shape effective public policy, and more.
In one of the world’s top centres for statistics, you’ll learn to design experiments and surveys, explore and analyze data, simulate complex systems, and extract meaningful information.
You’ll also get experience in statistical computing, forecasting, mathematical modelling, and statistical process control — all skills that will make you highly marketable. Not to mention up to two years of paid work experience if you enrol in co-op.
Where you apply those skills is up to you. Our grads go on to work in a huge range of fields, including biology, business, engineering, environmental science, finance, manufacturing, and the health sciences.
Program highlights
Social and academic support. A perfect balance of fun and academic support, the student-run Statistics Club organizes parties, movie nights, prof talks, study-buddy sessions, and more.
Get serious work experience. Choose Waterloo's co-op program and add two years of paid, career-relevant work experience to your résumé.
Available as a regular and co-op program
Graduate with a Bachelor of Mathematics in Statistics
Offered by the Faculty of Mathematics
What will you learn?

First-year courses
During your first year, you'll take a mix of foundational courses in Mathematics, Computer Science, and communications.
In your upper years, most of the courses you'll take will be in Statistics and Mathematics.
Learn more about the courses you'll take for your Statistics degree.


Customize your degree
You can add additional areas of expertise to your degree by including one of the minors available to all Waterloo students.
Once you're a student, advisors can help you explore which minors or specializations may fit into your plans.

 

Get tips from Waterloo students
Join our monthly newsletter for tips such as choosing a university program, life at Waterloo, and finances.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Contact a student ambassador
Ask a Faculty of Mathematics student about their program, classes, getting involved on campus, and more!
Questions?Contact a Math student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve. 

Sample co-op job titles
Data mining intern
Analytics and data science
Business analyst
Data & reporting analyst
Financial analyst
Quality assurance analyst
Research analyst

 
 



What can you do with a degree in Statistics?

Waterloo Statistics graduates often pursue careers in business, market, and data analysis, investment advisory, and more. They commonly work for telecommunications companies, financial institutions, and software companies.
Recent graduates
Business Analyst – LoyaltyOne 
Market Analyst – Intelligence House
Data Engineer – Shared.com
Supply Chain Optimization Manager – Walmart Canada Corporation
Business Intelligence – Bell Canada
Investment Advisor – Investors Group
Digital Data Analyst – Horizn
Learn about the future of careers in business.



Student life, including women in mathematics


Math Society (MathSoc)
MathSoc is run by students for students and provides a wide range of clubs and services as well as social and academic events to make your experience as a Waterloo Mathematics student the best it can be. There are many ways to get involved and to meet students in other Faculty of Mathematics programs.


Campus-wide activities
Outside of the Faculty of Mathematics, our campus is packed with opportunities to get involved, no matter how unique your interests. Between clubs supported by the Waterloo Undergraduate Student Association, sports and recreation, student government, and an incredible range of events, there's something for everyone at Waterloo!



Women in Mathematics
The Women in Mathematics (WiM) community encourages and advocates for women of all ages who are interested in studying math and pursuing a career in a related area. WiM strives for all genders to be well-represented in mathematics and welcomes people with under-represented gender identities.


Women in Computer Science
Women in Computer Science (WiCS) promotes gender equity for students interested in studying computer science and pursuing career in computing. WiCS has a very active student-run committee and offers events such as the Big CSters mentoring program, workshops, a speaker series, and panels about diversity in computer science and STEM.

 

There's also Women in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (WiSTEM), a student-run club that welcomes all students (regardless of gender) to promote equality in STEM. Opportunities include skills workshops, discussions, homework help, and guest speakers


"Being in the Faculty of Mathematics has given me lots of flexibility to try new things and discover different majors. I was able to take courses in many different disciplines within math which helped me to decide what I want to do after I graduate."Cody, third-year Statistics student"I enjoy the intellectual excitement when learning new things and solving problems. Co-op provides a chance to gain work experience — letting students explore career goals. Plus there are many clubs and events — I even went to the UK for an exchange." Jeffrey, fourth-year Statistics student

Statistics admission requirements

Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Advanced Functions
Calculus and Vectors
Any 4U English
One other 4U course
Recommended course: Grade 11 U Introduction to Computer Science
Admission averages: Individual selection from the high 80s
How to apply?
Apply to Mathematics and choose Statistics as your major. Once you've applied, you'll need to complete the Admission Information Form as part of the application process.
We strongly encourage you to participate in the Canadian Senior Mathematics Contest and/or the Euclid Mathematics Contest to enhance your admissions status.
To be considered for entrance scholarships in the Faculty of Mathematics, you must write one or both of the contests. If you complete both contests, we'll use the results of the contest in which you performed best.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, or careers?
Please contact our Faculty of Mathematics recruitment coordinator who can answer any questions you have.

Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochure 