
All the world’s a stage. Find your place on it. 

Learn to wow your audience as you explore theatre and performance in one of Canada’s most creative drama programs. Go beyond art history books and collaborate with professors, visiting artists, and other students to make high quality work that contributes to a just society. You'll learn by doing, covering performance to management, design to critical studies, and creation to technology. 
In the classroom, courses in performance, production, design, direction, and management will give you the technical tools to excel at your craft. Meanwhile, complementary courses in politics, race, gender, theory, technology, and aesthetics will help you decide what messages matter. You can apply your knowledge to co-op placements too.
By the time you graduate, you’ll have a rich portfolio to take into the world of theatre, plus a range of creative, analytical, and management skills that will serve you well in any number of roles, on stage or off.
Program highlights
Student-led productions. Each term, students play an active role in productions in our newly renovated 400-seat theatre — from set design and costume creation to lighting, sound, producing, directing, and acting.
A-list mentors. At Waterloo, you’ll work with award-winning professors and visiting artists to develop new plays, discover fresh approaches to the classics, and examine the performance of everyday life.
Available as a regular or co-op program
Available as a major and minor
Graduate with a Bachelor of Arts in Theatre and Performance
Offered by the Faculty of Arts
What will you learn?

First-year courses
During your first year, you'll take two introductory Theatre and Performance courses. Plus, you'll have electives to explore an additional major of your choosing. In upper years, 40% of the classes you'll take will be in your chosen major.
Learn about courses you'll take for your Theatre and Performance degree.


Customize your degree
You can additional areas of expertise by including one or more of the minors available to all Waterloo students. 

 

Get tips from Waterloo students 
Join our newsletter for tips such as choosing a program, life at Waterloo, and finances.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Contact a student ambassador
Ask a Faculty of Arts student about their program, classes, getting involved on campus, and more!
Questions?Contact an Arts student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve. 

Sample co-op job titles
Online video developer
Artist services coordinator
Communications and marketing assistant
Advancement communications assistant
Teaching assistant
Wardrobe apprentice

 
 



What can you do with a degree in Theatre and Performance?

Waterloo Theatre and Performance graduates often pursue careers in entertainment, teaching, stage management, and directing. They often work in theatres, at festivals, and in schools.
Recent graduates
Stage Manager – Drayton Entertainment
Production Manager – Original Kids Theatre Company
Senior Officer, Friends' Corps - National Ballet of Canada
Production Assistant – Lighthouse Festival Theatre
Assistant Lighting Director – Stratford Festival
Manager, Lifestyles & Entertainment – Sherkston Shores Beach Resort & Campground
Public Relations & Social – The Loyalty
Learn about the future of careers in arts, humanities, social sciences, languages, and creative arts.




Admissions
Apply to Honours Arts or Honours Arts and Business and choose Theatre and Performance as your major at the end of first year.
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Any Grade 12 U English (minimum final grade of at least 70%)
Admission average: Low 80s (co-op and regular)
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements for Honours Arts or Honours Arts and Business.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, careers?
Please contact our Faculty of Arts recruitment team who can answer any questions you have.

 

Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochure 