
Become a health-care professional who improves lives through recreation

Discover how recreation can improve quality of life for everyone, including people with physical and developmental disabilities, older adults living in long-term care homes, people with substance use disorders, and children with chronic illnesses.
In Waterloo’s Therapeutic Recreation program — one of only three in Ontario — you’ll learn how to create, implement, and assess activities that support cognitive, physical, emotional, and social well-being. Not to mention you can apply what you've learned to any co-op job you land through the co-op stream.
By the time you graduate, you’ll have the skills to pursue careers like recreation and occupational therapy. The programs you design and run can empower seniors to live more independently, improve the long-term health of stroke patients, and more.
You’ll also graduate eligible to apply for registration with Therapeutic Recreation Ontario and for certification with the National Council for Therapeutic Recreation Certification.
Program highlights
15 electives = lots of choice. With 15 electives from disciplines that can include social work, psychology, and health, you’ll have the flexibility to shape your degree according to your specific interests.
Build an awesome résumé. Get plenty of hands-on experience through practical courses, volunteer placements, and a required full-time internship in fourth year. Plus, we're the only such program in Ontario to offer multiple co-op terms.
Offers of admission
If you're admitted to the program, your Offer of Admission will be to Recreation and Leisure Studies. Once you accept your offer, you’ll be enrolled in Therapeutic Recreation and start that major in September.
Available as a regular or co-op program
Graduate with a Bachelor of Arts in Therapeutic Recreation
Offered by the Faculty of Health

Discover if Therapeutic Recreation is right for you.


View our digital program brochure 
 
Getting paid to help people play in Therapeutic Recreation
Watch video on YouTube
Wondering how to get paid by helping people play? Esther talks about her experiences in Waterloo's Therapeutic Recreation program.
What will you learn?

First-year courses
You'll take mostly Recreation and Leisure Studies courses to provide you with strong foundations for your upper-year classes. After first year, about half of the classes you’ll take will be Recreation and Leisure Studies courses.
Learn about courses you'll take for your Therapeutic Recreation degree.


Customize your degree
Add areas of expertise to your degree by pursuing areas of focus within the program or by choosing a  double major  or  joint honours. You can add additional areas of interest by including one or more of the minors available to all Waterloo students. Popular choices include Gerontology, Psychology, and Aging Studies.

 



Get tips from Waterloo students
Sign up for insider advice that can help you now and in the future.
Topics include how to choose a program, what it's like to be a Waterloo student, the differences between high school and university, and more.
Sign up for monthlyTips from Waterloo students

Questions? Ask a student!
Connect with a current student ambassador to learn about their experience in the program.
Ask them questions such as why they chose Therapeutic Recreation, what the classes are like, and how you can get involved on campus.
Questions?Contact a Health student
 

Co-op = relevant paid work experience

By alternating school terms and paid co-op work terms throughout your degree, you can explore new career areas and types of employers as your career interests evolve.
Learn about Esther's co-op experiences in Therapeutic Recreation
Learn about Haley and Jonathan's co-op experiences in Therapeutic Recreation

Sample co-op job titles
Recreation Therapist
Child & Youth Worker
Community Recreation Facilitator
Therapeutic Recreation & Community Assistant
Research Assistant

 
 
 

How to choose: co-op or regular?Take our quiz! 
 
 



What can you do with a degree in Therapeutic Recreation?

As a graduate, you can work with clients in settings ranging from long-term care facilities to local community agencies. You’ll also be eligible to apply for registration with Therapeutic Recreation Ontario and for certification with the National Council for Therapeutic Recreation Certification in the United States.

Recent graduates 
Vocational Instructor – Ontario Shores Centre for Mental Health Sciences
Child Life Specialist – Hospital for Sick Children
Therapy Assistant – Mackenzie Innovation Institute
Recreation Therapist – West Park Healthcare Centre
Counsellor – Alzheimer Society of Peel 
Outreach Worker – St. Matthew’s House
Communications Officer – Carey Outreach Ministries


Graduate stories
Learn about what recent graduates are doing with their degree
Making fun more accessible
Helping kids at SickKids
Learn more about the future of careers in health and helping professions.

 
Read profiles and view videos about the path Recreation graduates took to pursue their career. 
Further education
While the full range of further education depends on your individual interests, graduates commonly pursue a master's, PhD, or other professional health-care program in occupational therapy, physiotherapy, social work, and public health.



Common questions about the program

What do recreation therapists actually do?
While this program can lead to a range of careers, many graduates choose to work as recreation therapists. Recreation therapists "use recreation, leisure, and play as treatment modalities to support purposeful and meaningful interventions that are based on individual strengths and values, and are guided by assessments." (Canadian Therapeutic Recreation Association)
What’s the difference between Therapeutic Recreation and similar programs at other universities?
Waterloo’s program includes an overview of the entire recreation and leisure sector and has developed a solid reputation amongst employers. We work with a large network of organizations for our 105-hour practicum and 560-hour internship requirements, and with additional experiential learning opportunities like co-op and our EDGE certificate program, you’ll have a distinct advantage when applying to careers or further studies.
As a Waterloo graduate, you can also be eligible for registration with Therapeutic Recreation Ontario (TRO) and certification with the National Council for Therapeutic Recreation Certification (NCTRC).
What’s the difference between a diploma and a degree in Therapeutic Recreation?
According to the Canadian Therapeutic Recreation Association, "recreation therapists need a bachelor’s degree, usually in a recreation therapy or related field such as recreation and leisure studies with an emphasis or concentration in recreational therapy/therapeutic recreation. The bachelor’s degree program usually includes the following programs along with an internship: assessment, foundations, interventions, human anatomy, psychology, and courses on specific demographics."
How long does it take to complete this program?
It takes four years to complete this program as a full-time student through the regular system of study in which you’ll take courses between September and April each year and have your summers off.
You can also choose the co-op system of study where you’ll alternate between full-time studies and full-time jobs relating to your program. A co-op program takes five years to complete – and you’ll graduate with nearly two years of paid work experience.
It could also be completed over a longer period as a part-time program.
Is this program available online?
No. While you may be able to take some courses online, most courses required for the degree are available through in-person classes only.




"I’m convinced my acceptances into occupational therapy post-graduate programs was due to my practicum, internship, and paid co-op work experiences in Therapeutic Recreation. These experiences were so valuable."Esther, Therapeutic Recreation graduate"Therapeutic Recreation is really versatile and easy to customize! If you're interested in art and music or enjoy working with children or older adults, you can take courses in those areas and customize your degree based on your interests and goals."Taryn, fourth-year Therapeutic Recreation student
Admission requirements
Ontario students: six Grade 12 U and/or M courses including
Any Grade 12 U English (minimum final grade of 70% is required)
Admission average: Low 80s (co-op and regular)
Not studying in Ontario? Search our admission requirements for Recreation and Leisure Studies (RLS). You'll apply to RLS for the Therapeutic Recreation major.
How to apply
You'll apply to Recreation and Leisure Studies and choose Therapeutic Recreation as your major.


Connect with us
Questions about courses, programs, requirements, or careers?
Please contact Clare Stevens, our Faculty of Health recruitment co-ordinator who can answer any questions you have.


 

Not sure which Recreation major is right for you?


Find your program in the Faculty of HealthTake our quiz! 
 
Explore programsTours and eventsRequest a brochureRelated programs
Recreation and Leisure Studies
Recreation and Sport Business
Social Development Studies
Sociology
 